### Recruitment

#### Recruitment Principles

##### 1. Be fair

At dxw we try to be fair to all candidates at every step through interview,
selection and induction. We take account of and work to overcome our biases. We
are prepared and give our full attention during interviews and exercises.

We are also fair to ourselves and to colleagues involved in recruitment. We
don't overburden people or waste their time, and we try to minimise disruption
to their other work.

##### 2. Respect and support every candidate

At dxw we respect our candidates' time and are considerate of their feelings. We
provide a single point of contact within the commercial operations team, and are
clear about what candidates can expect from the interview and selection process
with dxw.

We want every candidate to have the best chance to demonstrate their skill and
ability and we will work with individuals to adapt our process to meet their
needs.

##### 3. Have a broad and diverse hiring team

At dxw we encourage all our staff to get involved in recruitment to give a
variety of perspectives and fewer gaps in our awareness.

Our recruitment process includes different stages and different activities, and
involves different people at each stage where possible, so the candidate can
meet and interact with as many of their potential colleagues as possible.

##### 4. Balance consistency and flexibility

At dxw we follow a consistent overall approach to recruitment to promote equity
and inclusion. Within that approach, we are flexible in our recruitment methods
to hopefully provide the best outcome for individual candidates.

##### 5. Have clear ownership

At dxw every position we recruit for has an appropriate owner to make sure we
are clear about the new role and the skills we need, and are consistent in how
we evaluate candidates. The owner keeps their team and other dxw colleagues
informed about progress and the person we eventually hire.

##### 6. Consider diversity and inclusion at every step

At dxw we want to build a diverse team and an inclusive and welcoming workplace
and we believe that begins with recruitment.

We advertise new positions in ways and on platforms that will reach the broadest
range of potential candidates. We describe the roles and the skills we are
looking for to try to avoid excluding anyone.

##### 7. Communicate to the team first

When communicating the need to hire someone, internally, we do so with openness
to invite applications from and conversations with the current team. This helps
provide opportunities to grow at dxw.

##### 8. Balance speed with quality

Our speed to hire is hugely important to ensure we do not lose candidates to
long delays. The focus should be on supporting candidates to go through each
stage of the process as quickly as possible and amending those stages when
needed. It should also ensure we are giving them the best opportunity to
demonstrate their skills to us and to get to know us as an organisation, so they
can make an informed decision whether to join us.
