---
---

{% include sections/who-we-are.md %}

{% include sections/work-we-do.md %}

{% include sections/working-here.md %}

## Our professions

### Leadership

At dxw, we believe that great teams need great leaders.

#### Leadership principles

Whether or not they are in a formal management role, leaders at dxw are guided
by these principles.

1. **Set an example**

   Leaders at dxw demonstrate our values in everything we do. We set high
   standards of behaviour and inspire both colleagues and clients to do the
   same.

   We demonstrate fairness, integrity, and resilience, and build trust with our
   actions.

1. **Look after people**

   Leaders at dxw promote the wellbeing of individuals, teams and communities.
   We encourage a supportive culture and inclusive working arrangements. We
   prioritise 1:1 time with people to listen and understand their particular
   needs.

   We support and defend colleagues in difficult situations. We identify and
   deal with poor performance and bad behaviour.

1. **Take ownership**

   Leaders at dxw welcome responsibility and accountability. We’re proactive,
   pick up things that need doing without being asked and push to finish the job
   in hand.

   We’re the first to admit mistakes, apologise when wrong and learn for next
   time.

1. **Deliver for clients**

   Leaders at dxw understand how to deliver value for each client and create the
   conditions for dxw to do brilliant work. We are not afraid to challenge
   clients or ask difficult questions.

   We think commercially and push dxw to grow and strengthen as a business.

1. **Provide clarity**

   Leaders at dxw communicate clearly and concisely through the right channel.
   We question any decisions, goals or explanations that are vague or ambiguous
   and work to clarify them.

   We’re open, honest and straightforward in what we say and write. And we
   provide specific, understandable and useful feedback.

1. **Make good decisions**

   Leaders at dxw use evidence and judgement to make good decisions. We know
   that timely decisions are important, so we don’t procrastinate or fudge. We
   commit to collective decisions, particularly when we originally disagreed.

   We consult broadly, seek out contrary opinions, and listen to quieter voices.
   We make sure we can explain our decisions, with context, rationale and
   evidence.

1. **Point the way**

   Leaders at dxw share an inspiring vision for the future of dxw, and each
   individual’s part in it.

   On client and dxw projects, we make sure that colleagues understand the
   outcomes we want to achieve and the value that they will create.

1. **Build the future**

   Leaders at dxw hire great people. We actively look for the widest range of
   candidates to strengthen our diversity.

   We encourage our colleagues to learn, develop new skills, and pursue their
   career aspirations, whether at dxw or elsewhere. And we give people
   opportunity and responsibility at the right pace for them.

   We continually improve dxw capability, and the effectiveness and efficiency
   of our delivery. We try out new approaches and technologies and give others
   the time and space to do the same.

### Strategy

We create the conditions and in-house capability our clients need to deliver and
keep improving great services.

#### Strategy team principles

The strategy team apply these principles to our work.

1. **Bring people together to make the right decisions**

   We facilitate activities to help organisations make good decisions,
   prioritise and create the momemtum for change.

1. **Focus on impact and sustainable change**

   We’re here to create significant long-term change. We won’t get involved if
   we don’t believe that’s possible.

1. **Question the brief**

   Before starting delivery we interrogate the brief to make sure it is clear,
   realistic and provides the foundation for delivery teams to start work.

1. **Meet organisational goals as well as user needs**

   We help organisations clarify their goals and set up the right measures to
   track performance and progress. So they can deliver better services for the
   people who need them.

1. **Use methods that work**

   We use established methods where we can, or develop new ones where we need
   to.

1. **Create the conditions to deliver**

   We set up teams to deliver and keep improving once we’re gone.

### Delivery management

#### Delivery management principles

Delivery leads at dxw are guided by these principles.

**Maintain diplomacy**

We encourage calmness and patience, we ensure all voices are heard in a fair way
and we’re always proactive to get stuff done.

**Demonstrate leadership**

We have the autonomy to lead and to say no, we’re responsible for empowering
delivery teams to do great things and we coach others to get the best from them.

**Show strength & resilience**

We protect the team so they can focus, we remove blockers and distraction and we
provide context and see the bigger picture.

**Enable, empower & encourage**

We create space for the team to deliver and individuals to thrive, we build up
trust with the team, our clients and our stakeholders to support decision making
and progress and we’re always supportive and demonstrate positivity, with a
focus on delivery.

**Prioritise learning & improving**

We actively learn from what we do and take responsibility to ensure that
learning feeds back into what we do next and we stand by our ability to
facilitate communication and constructive conversation.

### Product management

#### Product management principles

Product managers at dxw follow these principles.

1. **Set the destination, don’t chart the course**

   Product managers help empower multidisciplinary teams by refining and
   articulating the problem the team is trying to solve, and the outcomes
   they‘re trying to produce.

   Communicating the vision and goals for a project through a clear and
   well-maintained roadmap is a core part of product management.

1. **Define and defend scope**

   Getting agreement from everyone involved is crucial to successful delivery.

   Product managers should set the direction at the start of a project, and
   continue to articulate, communicate and defend the scope throughout, so that
   the team can focus on delivering.

1. **Convert insight into action**

   User research helps inform our objectives, goals, and priorities by telling
   us more about the problems users are having with the current state, or the
   needs they have for something different.

   Product managers need to be able to balance user research insights with
   constraints like time, capacity, and strategic objectives to prioritise the
   next most important thing.

   Product managers help the team to work together, across disciplines, to
   identify potential solutions before choosing a way forward.

1. **Have a service mindset**

   Product managers recognise that a digital product is often not the whole
   solution to a problem, and that the people operating a new service day to day
   are users too.

   We think about the processes and systems around a product, including how
   those might change.

1. **Communicate clearly how short term outcomes contribute to long term goals**

   Product managers need to own and articulate a vision that is consistent and
   meaningful to everyone with an interest in the project, from the delivery
   team all the way through to the most senior stakeholders, and users.

1. **Be present, collaborative, and consistent**

   Being available to the team to discuss the unexpected and share in the
   decision making is central to building empowered and protected teams.

   Product managers should regularly and actively communicate, review and defend
   our decisions - especially the unplanned or unexpected ones.

1. **Maintain a focus on outcomes**

   In the midst of delivery, key dates can loom large, and teams can be diverted
   onto things which seem urgent but aren‘t important.

   Product managers must help teams and stakeholders remain focused on outcomes
   over outputs, facilitating discussion and making space for reflection.

1. **Lead without authority**

   Product managers shouldn‘t be bottlenecks. Product managers and delivery
   leads work together to build skilled multidisciplinary teams and create the
   space in which those disciplines can do their best work.

   Product managers are open to new tools, techniques and approaches, working
   with teams to find what works.

1. **Take blame, give credit away**

   Good product managers leave their ego at the door, taking negative feedback
   on board whilst ensuring the team are rightly recognised for their work and
   achievements.

   Being kind is more important than being right - it‘s a good rule of thumb to
   enter every conversation without assuming that you already know most, or
   best.

1. **Strong opinions, softly held**

   Product managers make the best decisions based on the available information
   with confidence, staying open to the possibility that things could change
   when more information is available in the future.

   Product managers communicate the trade-offs they’re making and the rationale
   for their decisions so that teams can understand how a decision was reached,
   even when they don’t agree.

1. **Set clear priorities**

   Product managers work with the team, stakeholders and users to define
   priorities, and ensure these are clear.

1. **Measure outcomes**

   Product managers facilitate and work with service designers and business
   analysts to work out key metrics and goals for the product and work with the
   team to define roadmaps to achieve these goals.

Hat tip to
[Ross Ferguson](https://medium.com/@rossferg/the-principles-that-make-me-a-better-product-manager-9e50814d184f)
for inspiring several of these principles.

### User research

At dxw, we believe in making decisions based on evidenced user needs. As user
researchers, we help multidisciplinary teams learn about users and recognise the
value of user research. There is no single right way of doing this, but as a
team, we need to stay unified in the way we approach, do, and talk about
research.

#### User research principles

Our principles are not rules. They guide our work, keep us improving as a team,
and working with, not for our clients.

1. **Help teams understand people**

   Researchers at dxw help our teams build a deep understanding of the people
   who use our services. We know that‘s the best way to create public services
   that work well for the people who need them.

   We are facilitators, not gatekeepers. We actively involve our colleagues and
   clients in research. And openly share what we do, how we do it and why it‘s
   important.

1. **Find the truth. Tell the truth**

   Researchers at dxw create strong evidence and reliable answers so our teams
   can act with confidence. We are bold and focus on what‘s most important.

   We know we can learn things that are unexpected and challenging. So we
   communicate clearly and sensitively to help everyone make the best decision.

   (Credit to the great
   [Dana Chisnell](https://twitter.com/danachis/status/802930860030918656) and
   the [United States Digital Service](https://www.usds.gov/mission) for this
   one)

1. **Take ethics seriously**

   Researchers at dxw know that the safety and trust of participants is our
   responsibility. We think about the ethics of our research at every step. From
   how we recruit participants and get their informed consent, through how we
   store and use the data we collect, to how we share our findings.

1. **Be methodical, but not rigid**

   Researchers at dxw know that the quality of our findings depends on the
   quality of our methods. We use tried and tested methods, and take time to
   reflect and continually improve our practice.

   But we also understand that context is important. So we use the best approach
   for the question at hand and adapt our ways of working to fit the client and
   the project.

1. **Learn, share and adapt**

   Researchers at dxw work in an agile way. We do research and analysis in small
   batches so we can continuously share and adapt to what we learn.

1. **Make research inclusive**

   Researchers at dxw know how important it is that public services work for all
   the people who need to use them. We help teams understand the needs of all
   their users, and do research activities that everyone can participate in.

1. **Build on existing evidence**

   Researchers at dxw help clients build on the knowledge and data they already
   have. We combine existing knowledge, poorly understood data and new research
   into a coherent picture.

1. **Accept and admit constraints**

   Researchers at dxw do the best research we can within the constraints we
   have. We acknowledge and share the limits of our research and our findings.
   And we advocate for more research when it‘s needed to achieve the project
   outcomes.

#### User research guidance

The Playbook includes detailed guidance on
[how we do user research at dxw](/guides/how-we-do-user-research).

The guide starts with the user research workflow, which describes the things
that user researchers usually do on projects, and then provides further guidance
and links to resources for specific topics.

### Design

#### Design team principles

Designers at dxw follow these principles:

1. **Democratise the design process**

   Take into account, and value highly, the input of others in the design
   process. While we are ultimately responsible for design in a delivery team,
   we don’t work in isolation.

1. **Value clarity in everything we do**

   Use plain language in interfaces, writing and conversation.

1. **Overlap with other disciplines**

   Work closely with people that have different skills to you, in the knowledge
   that different perspectives make our decisions stronger and elevate our work.

1. **Communicate constantly**

   Never go missing. Our teammates always understand what we’re doing and why,
   because we’re all aiming for the same outcome.

1. **Know we are not the user**

   Do not assume to know how users of our services think or act. We acknowledge
   that things such as genetics, upbringing, religious and geographical culture,
   and past experiences make us all different. We work closely with our user
   researchers to gain understanding and insight about the people that use the
   things we design. _“One accurate measurement is worth more than a thousand
   expert opinions.”_ ~ Grace Hopper

1. **Be educators**

   Know that being open about our work, and helping others to understand our
   decisions and why we make them, benefits everybody.

1. **Be kind**

   Be tolerant, understanding, empathetic and compassionate. Look for
   opportunities to help and care for others. Putting people at the centre of
   everything will help you be a better designer.

1. **Embrace questions**

   Understand that when people ask questions and give feedback it is to make
   something better. If we can not articulate our decisions then we may not have
   made the best choice.

1. **Ask questions**

   Always ask questions and seek the truth; when we understand the problem we
   can solve it. When things seem muddy take a step back and try and find the
   original intent or gaps in understanding. _“If I had an hour to solve a
   problem I’d spend 55 minutes thinking about the problem and five minutes
   thinking about solutions.”_ ~ Albert Einstein

1. **Always assume the best intent**

   We are passionate about what we do, but we are a team. When you have
   difficult conversations or feedback we should always assume that it is coming
   from a good place.

1. **Tell stories**

   When we talk about our work and why we do what we do, do not just state the
   facts. Inject some humanity into it; turn it into a story with a beginning, a
   middle, and an end.

### Development

#### Development principles

1. **Solve real user needs**

   Good code starts with understanding, and is rooted in the real world. We work
   in multi-disciplinary teams, but you’re not just there to churn out code. Get
   involved in the research and design. Understand the needs of the users and
   the constraints of the organisations we’re working with.

   Ultimately, it’s about the user and their needs, not about technology.
   Sometimes software is not the answer.

1. **Own your code, but collaborate**

   Having the opportunity to see a piece of work through to completion is a
   great way to get stuff done, and for developers to grow. Take ownership of
   your work to get it all the way through our development process to being used
   by users.

   Ownership gets stuff done, but collaboration makes it better. So involve the
   rest of your team in your work: agree approaches, highlight tradeoffs and
   seek out reviews. Get all your code reviewed by another developer to help us
   ship better quality code, get the opportunity to learn new skills, and
   increase the shared knowledge of our products. Request feedback, ask
   questions and discuss code, but ultimately the author is responsible for
   making changes.

1. **Security is a user need**

   Sometimes the simplest or easiest solution is not the most secure, and we
   fight for our user’s safety and security, even when a client doesn’t agree.

1. **Use simple, conventional technology**

   By default, use straightforward technology and conventional approaches. The
   services we built have to be maintained and iterated on by small, and
   sometimes less experienced, teams. Keeping things simple ensures that is as
   painless as possible.

   Vary from convention only on the domain specific stuff, where it adds the
   most value.

1. **Build for quality and consistency**

   Think about those who come after us. We build high quality systems with the
   lowest possible maintenance burden. We write tests, use linters, follow
   standards and conventions, and document our decisions. The things we build
   should be set to thrive after we leave.

1. **Improve with each iteration**

   Always leave the codebase in a slightly better place than when you found it.
   Look for opportunities to refactor difficult code, to improve documentation,
   or to extract shared functionality.

1. **Communicate clearly and frequently**

   Help our future selves and others by recording the reasons for our actions.
   Explain the changes you’re making to code through your commit messages and
   pull requests. Explain the decisions you’re making about technology through
   architecture decision records. Explain the tradeoffs you’re making in
   planning and show and tells.

   Use straightforward language, even when you’re dealing with complex technical
   issues. Prefer to write it down over speaking it out, to ensure a lasting
   record.

1. **Be humble, supportive and open minded**

   Assume other people on your team know things you don’t. Feel comfortable
   saying “I don’t know”.

   Assume you know things other people on your team don’t, but be prepared to be
   wrong. Ask questions rather than giving instructions. Share your opinions and
   experience openly with your team.

   Question the obvious and test our assumptions. Listen to the client and the
   users and their experiences.

   Be non-judgemental – assume everyone did the best they could at the time,
   with what they knew and the resources available.

1. **Always learning. Always teaching**

   Technology never stops, and the amount to know even for our limited stack is
   huge, so we must learn and share. We teach each other through peer mentoring,
   pairing and reviews.

   Share what you learn on a project with the whole team so we can reuse
   knowledge across projects. Encourage others in their learning.

1. **Do the smallest amount of good work**

   We aspire to regularly ship good code, and deliver it to the users as often
   as possible. Delivering impact fast by shipping something real has a big
   impact on the morale of the team and happiness of our clients and users.

   Where you can, do less and deliver it sooner. Break down work into smaller
   pieces. Descope anything that isn’t critical for a first version. Do a
   minimum slice that works for some of your users. Anything to reduce the time
   between get started on something and delivering it to users.

   Work at a pace that suits the project. Hacky is sometimes fine. If you’re
   working on prototypes then do only what you need to answer your questions.
   Sometimes, if you’re working on critical production systems, you’ll have to
   go slower. When that’s the case, it’s even more important to break down the
   work into the smallest reasonable chunks, to demonstrate progress, to make
   reviewing the changes as easy as possible, and to prove your assumptions.

1. **Work in the open**

   Be open by default. Code should be public unless there’s a good reason
   otherwise. Changes to open source libraries should be contributed back to the
   project. Dashboards should be public wherever reasonable.

   The way we’re working should also be open to our clients. Work being done
   should be represented in Trello boards that everyone can see. Communication
   should be done in public Slack channels rather than direct messages. Openly
   communicating about our work allows clients to see how we’re doing, and what
   needs their attention, and gives everyone in the team context for the work
   being done and decisions being made.

### Commercial Operations

We are the team that enables and encourages dxw to achieve its mission(s) and
uphold its values.

#### Commercial Operations Team Principles

##### Things we do:

1. We deliver the dxw business plan. In particular, we recruit the best people
   to meet our mission, manage our finances to allow sustainable growth, and
   track performance of objectives to measure ourselves.

1. We are the front door for staff and clients. We help, support and enable dxw
   to meet its mission and uphold its values. We do this by being empathetic and
   put people over process.

1. As commercial experts we take the burden away from our delivery teams, and
   make sure our people, as well as our suppliers get paid, whilst also ensuring
   our clients pay us on time.

1. The unit of delivery is always the team, so we ensure staff wellbeing by
   providing a safe and inclusive environment. We also support our people to
   thrive in all stages of their careers, ensuring they have chance to
   continually learn, as well as excellent facilities and the right tools to
   enable them to succeed in their careers.

1. We ensure dxw is compliant with all the relevant company and employment
   regulations, ensuring we have ISO 27001 accreditation, abide by GDPR
   guidelines and insurance.

1. Commercial and business operations can be thankless, but to manage
   expectations we remain resilient and take responsibility for our work by
   effectively communicating about what we do and why we do it.

##### Behaviours

1. Empathetic to our users / staff / suppliers / clients.

1. Support each other to support the team.

1. Commercial accuracy and responsibility.

1. We are balanced, organised and resilient.

1. People over process, to maintain our unique, small-company, culture.

1. We are proud of what we do and are confident enough to talk about it.

1. We manage expectations by taking responsibility for our work and
   communicating what we do and why.

1. We _are_ the company values.

### Sales and marketing

#### Sales and marketing team principles

The sales and marketing teams at dxw follow these principles:

1. **Start from solid foundations**

   We work with potential and current clients to understand their needs and how
   we can deliver value - seeking out opportunities for mutual growth.

   We support our clients to make the right buying decisions, ensuring we focus
   on positive outcomes for users and making the most of the resources
   available.

   We work closely with our delivery team so we can be open with clients about
   who will be available to do the work and realistic delivery timescales.

1. **Build positive relationships**

   We work in partnership with our clients, and are open and transparent at all
   times.

   We remain responsible and accountable to both our delivery teams and clients,
   ensuring that we represent them in the right way and can deliver on our
   commitments.

   We give our clients the opportunity and platform to talk openly about their
   experience of working with us. We listen to what they’re telling us - about
   what’s going well and what we need to do differently - and constantly work to
   improve things.

1. **Find the right work**

   We welcome new opportunities, and actively seek input from the dxw team to
   help us decide whether an opportunity is ‘dxw shaped’.

   We consider the ethical implications of the work - does it help to create
   better digital public services that make people’s lives better?

   We will only take on work that’s a good fit for the team - that won’t put us
   under undue strain, where our team will be safe and we can have a positive
   relationship with our client.

1. **Show the work and the team**

   We’re an active part of the digital and tech community that’s working to
   build better public services.

   We talk openly about what we’re doing and why, what we’re learning along the
   way and share our ideas and expertise. We blog all the time.

1. **Have a clear voice**

   Whenever we communicate - online or face-to-face - we’re always clear, to the
   point, friendly, and professional. You can rely on us to say it like it is.

   We champion the things that matter to us and our clients. We’re bold and
   pragmatic and seek to influence change for the better in the way public
   services are created and delivered.

1. **Communicate with a purpose**

   When we communicate, it’s to explain what we’re doing and the impact of our
   work so our clients and potential clients understand our areas of expertise
   and how we can help them.

   We’re open about our values and the way we work in dxw digital. We give our
   team members a voice because we’re proud of our diverse and inclusive
   culture.
