# dxw’s Playbook

## Purpose

For most of dxw's life, we've been small enough that it's been easy for everyone
to know what's going on and how to get things done, just by listening to what's
going on in the office. The team is now big enough that we need a reference for
the way we do things. A place to capture the changes we agree to make. Something
canonical that tells us what the current "right way" to do things is.

We'll always iterate on this document, because we'll always explore better ways
to get things done. But now, when we've found one, it'll be recorded here. And
once it is, it'll be the way we do things until we find something better, and
write it down.

dxw now encompasses dxw digital and dxw cyber, many of the values and ways of working are the same across both businesses and so one document is used for both, with any differences being identified.

This document lives in Github. Anyone on the team can edit it, and should do so.
But an edit must never be a substitute for discussion and agreement, so be
careful about making significant changes. This document is also public, because
there is very little about our process that cannot be open. But there will be
things from time to time, so don't forget that changes here get published to the
world.

Finally, this document is inspired by [Thoughtbot's excellent
playbook](https://playbook.thoughtbot.com/). Thanks, Thoughtbot!

## Advisory Council

dxw digital and dxw cyber do not have external investors or shareholders. To help keep us honest, we are very lucky to have a voluntary advisory council, made up of a small group of senior figures, who meet quarterly to discuss and provide guidance on our strategy, business plan and other topics related to company health and progression. The group have a wealth of experience of public and private sector work, as well beings friends of dxw that share our values.

## Working at dxw

### Why we are here

The web has revolutionised the way society works. Most of society has reaped the
benefits of digital technology, but most public services lag behind. As a
result, they are often expensive to build and run, and hard for people to use.

Since dxw was founded in 2008, a lot of things have become better. The
Government Digital Service has changed the conversation about how and why
services get built, and many are much better as a result. But the challenge
facing the public sector is not one that any organisation could tackle alone.

In addition to talented in-house teams who understand how to deliver great
services, the public sector needs talented suppliers who understand how to work
with it. And who are driven by a desire to make public services better. And who
understand how to combine a modern technological approach with agile principles
of development and user-centricity. That's what dxw is here to do.

We build digital public services that are flexible, efficient, effective and
useful. We want people's experience of those services to be straightforward,
positive and seamless. We believe that in building those services using agile
principles, we can help government to embed those same principles in other parts
of their organisations.

Ultimately, we want to help the public sector to spend less on technology so
that it can spend more on education, healthcare, policing and welfare. We
believe that it is possible to use technology and agile principles to help
government become something recognisably, radically better: and we want to help
make it happen.

We established dxw cyber in late 2017 to bring the same perspective to security and assurance work as we have with our dxw digital work. Our practice is grounded in high-value penetration testing, and wrapped with practical, hands-on support for front-line teams and pragmatic, focussed consultancy for leaders.

dxw helps public sector teams to make good technology decisions and build better
services.

### Values

We think that it's very important to have a talented team if we're going to
succeed. But just as important as raw talent is our ability to work well
together. These are the values that we aspire to, and help each other to
achieve.

#### Helpful

We are helpful, useful and expert. We give practical and pragmatic advice to
each other, and to our clients.

#### Positive

We are positive, cheerful and supportive. Even in crisis, we stay optimistic. We
[assume good faith](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Assume_good_faith)
and offer constructive challenge.

#### Reliable

We are reliable, consistent and committed. We make every effort to live up to
each others' expectations, and to exceed the expectations of our clients.

#### Honest

We are honest, trustworthy and straightforward. We give plain-spoken, frank,
accurate feedback and advice, and we never mislead or obscure the issue at hand.

#### Curious

We are curious, diverse and creative. We help each other to learn and improve
and we're sensitive to each others' needs. We love technology and finding new
ways to solve problems.

#### Determined

We are determined, discerning and motivated. We believe in high standards, we
enjoy doing things properly, and we're loath to settle for less.

### Principles

These principles guide our behaviour and decision making, and help us live up to our [values](#values).

#### Agile mindset

At dxw, we think that agile is a mindset that’s accepting of change, curious
about trying new approaches to make things better, and values careful planning
in short chunks.

We think that the [Agile Manifesto](http://agilemanifesto.org/) contains a lot
of wisdom, but we don’t follow the industry of methodologies, training and
certifications that has grown up around it. We think agile is something you
learn to be, not something that you learn to do.

Our teams frequently experiment with different tools and techniques so we can
improve. This applies not only to development work, but to everything we do at
dxw, from user research to business operations.

We recognise the importance of planning, compliance and governance, so we work
those activities into the process, every step of the way.

#### Sustainable pace

We work at a sustainable pace. We estimate work and schedule it conservatively,
and set realistic expectations with clients about the pace of delivery.

This doesn't mean that we don't work hard. Being productive is a vital part of
maintaining the trust that our clients give us, and it's important not to let
them down.

When taking time off during client work, we discuss how it will impact the
schedule with other team members.

Sending communication outside of working hours may create an unintended sense of
urgency with the recipients of your message. Try to avoid creating that urgency
when possible. Unless actually urgent, you may ignore messages which you receive
outside of working hours and handle them once you are back at work.

#### Openness and confidentiality (dxw digital)

dxw digital believe it's best to be open about what we're doing. We encourage our clients to do the same, as does the [service manual](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual). We talk, blog and write about what we're doing, and we are open about as much as we can.

At dxw digital, we release [code](http://www.github.com/dxw), publish our
[contracts](http://www.github.com/dxw/contracts) and things like this playbook
and talk with people about what we're up to because we believe that we'll
ultimately have more opportunities to work, grow and improve than if we kept
everything to ourselves.

However, there are some things that we must keep private.

* Our clients trust us to host content that is not public, like upcoming announcements and discussions made as part of formulating new policy. This is not our information to be open about, and it's very important to keep it confidential.
* We also hold some personal data about and/or on behalf of our clients. We never share any of this data, including contact details. See also: [data protection](#data-protection).
* We are sometimes sent documents that are [protectively marked](#protective-marking-scheme), and we have a scheme of our own. Information in these documents is confidential.
* Information about work that is currently being procured (whether we are bidding or not) and any other information that could damage the commercial interests of a client or supplier
* Anything to do with the work of dxw cyber: see below.

#### Openness and confidentiality (dxw cyber)

dxw cyber's work is usually more sensitive than dxw digital's. We still value openness and believe that it is important, but we have less freedom to talk about our work. Our clients expect us to keep almost everything about our work with them private.

As with dxw digital, we also release [code](http://www.github.com/dxwcyber), publish our [contracts](http://www.github.com/dxw/contracts) and use this playbook. But we must tread with more care, to ensure that we maintain our obligations to clients not to release information that could compromise their systems or cause them embarassment.

As a result, we take the opposite approach to dxw digital. We treat everything about our work as private and confidential, with these exceptions:

* General discussions about tools, techniques, approaches and methodologies
* The nature of our roles and day-to-day work
* The purpose, mission, vision and values for dxw cyber, and the ways we get things done

However, even with these exceptions, there is an overriding principle that client information must be kept confidential. For example, if talking about a particular attack technique could allow someone to infer the identity of a client, we would not discuss it in public.

In addition, we take measures to ensure that we don't accidentally expose confidential information. For more information about this, talk to your team lead.

#### Diversity and inclusion statement (dxw digital)

At dxw digital, we value people and want them to feel free to be themselves.

We embrace each other's differences, in gender, religion, beliefs, ethnicity,
disability, age, sexual orientation, neurotype,
nationality, and identity. We are diverse - like the people we build, design,
and create for.

Amazing things happen when we collaborate together. We work in the open and
believe everyone's voices should be heard.

We recognise individual needs and aim to provide a work environment that is
accessible, welcoming, and empowering for all. We want everyone to feel
supported and included in our wider community.

Our [values](#values) are more than just words on a page - it’s about constant action and
holding ourselves to account.

We’re committed to being transparent with our diversity information and
regularly assessing the impact of all our policies and practices.

Thank you for being you - it makes us better.

### Changes to this document

This playbook is a collaborative effort. If you spot something that's wrong,
feel free to hop in and correct it. But remember that this playbook is the
result of our conversations about how we should do things, not a substitute for
one. So don't make changes unless they reflect our shared agreement about how
things are going to be done.

If you are making a substantial change (perhaps following a team conversation)
please make it in a branch and submit a pull request. Then ask someone else who
was in the conversation to review and merge it. When we review a pull request on
the playbook, we check that it accurately captures the conversation, that it
doesn't contain anything private, and that it's well written and free of typos,
incorrect spellings and other minor errors.

## Building services

### Client experience

#### Responsiveness

One of the things our clients value most is responsiveness. Many will be under
pressure to get things done quickly, and will be expected by their colleagues
and managers to know what is going on at any given time, and to manage us
effectively. If we're not quick to respond to their queries, questions and
concerns, we reduce their ability to maintain the confidence of their
colleagues.

So, when we are on sprints, we endeavour to respond to our client quickly. It's
not always possible to resolve a problem or get an answer quickly, but that
shouldn't stop us from acknowledging a message or giving regular updates. As
with [tickets](#be-responsive), being responsive to a query is just as important
as giving a definitive answer.

When we get enquiries for clients who are not currently sprinting, we still
answer as quickly as we can - but clients who are sprinting come first.

We also expect most communication with clients to happen with the project's
delivery lead. We don't hide anyone on the team from the client, and they are
free to ask questions of whomever they wish. But if you're a developer and you
get a question that's really for a delivery lead to answer, refer the client on. This will
help to keep you productive, and will help the client understand who on the dxw
team does what.

#### Progress in every sprint

Delivering projects in an agile way requires trust between everyone involved in
delivery. Clients must have confidence in us for the process to work. One of the
quickest ways to lose confidence is to finish sprints with little to show for
the effort we've made. In all of our work, we maintain a clear relationship
between sprints and their associated costs, and visible, tangible changes to the
service we're working on.

This means that we structure work so that visible progress and supporting
back-end work happens side-by-side. We don't work on back-end or supporting code
first, and then bolt front-ends on later. We make sure that what we're doing is
visible to our clients as early as possible. This helps us to maintain trust,
and gives us more opportunities to learn what works and what doesn't by
involving users of the service in testing.

#### Involvement

We involve clients in every aspect of our work. Projects work best when everyone
involved feels part of the same team. So, other than the internal retro, there's
no aspect of our process that we do without client involvement.

In particular, we should go out of our way to involve clients when decisions are
being made about design, user needs, or strategy (among other things). We're not
here to make decisions for our clients: we're here to help them to make good
decisions themselves. So we shouldn't make decisions about important things
without them.

This isn't to say that we require clients to participate in everything. Clients
and projects have varying needs, so this aspect of the process is flexible. But
we always make the option of involvement available. If they want to join daily
standups as well as participate in sprint planning, they can.

### The structure of a project

At dxw we follow the Government [Service
Manual](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual) and our projects move through
discovery, alpha, beta, live and retirement phases.

One change to our approach is the addition of an **Inception** phase at the
start of a project, before discovery. We think this phase is necessary to set up
a single team with our clients, establish ways of working, and get everyone
behind a shared vision and goals for the project.

At a high level, we believe the purpose of each phase is:

**Inception**: Establish a single, multi-displinary team with the client. Bring
everyone together for a kick-off session to agree principles for how we'll work
together. Run a roadmapping workshop to define a set of goals and vision for
the project. The roadmap also clearly defines dependencies and risks, and a
list of things to learn or prove to form the basis of a user research plan

**Discovery**: Carry out research to define users and understand their needs.
Document findings, user needs and user journeys. Sometimes this phase also
involves conducting technical discovery work to look at different technologies
and solutions that might meet users' needs

**Alpha**: Translate user needs into prototypes. Test prototypes with users and
iterate them based on feedback. We also use the alpha phase to carry out
technical spikes and experiments, and to make initial technology and service
design decisions

**Beta**: Build a working version of the service, based on what we learnt in
alpha. Carry out regular usability testing of the service with users, and
launch a minimum viable product. Make plans for supporting the service and
continue iterating it.

**Live**: Operate the service, carry out regular user research and continue to
iterate it. If new user needs are identified, we develop the service and launch
new features to meet them.

**Retirement**: Work out how user needs will be met without your service.
Provide help and guidance, archiving, and links to other services. Don't leave
people in the lurch; never let a link die

We don't always do all these phases for every client. Often, we'll only be
involved in a couple. But we can help with all or any of them, depending on our
clients' needs.

### Development sprints

We break down projects into two-week sprints. Throughout a project we maintain a
product backlog, refine user stories based on what we learn and carry out
development work to meet the user needs that have been identified.

Every project, client and team is different. But, there are some common
approaches we take to all projects.

On the first day of a sprint we facilitate a planning session and finish sprints
with a show and tell and retrospective. These sessions involve the whole team,
including developers, user researchers, designers and delivery leads, as well as
the product owner and other members of the client team.

#### Communicate Progress

Every morning a delivery lead facilitates a standup. Standups last 5-10 minutes
and are for the team to discuss what they're working on that day and whether
there are any problems or dependencies affecting them. If the team is not
co-located with a client, standups happen over a video-call.

During the sprints a delivery lead will share a week note, usually on a Friday,
with everyone involved or interested in the project. The note will include a
brief summary of what the team have done that week, what is planned for the
following week and highlight blockers, dependencies or things the team is
thinking about too.

At the end of each sprint the team run a show and tell. This is an opportunity
for the team to show the work they have done on that sprint and allows people
involved in the project to see what has been achieved. We work in an open and
transparent way so encourage anyone interested in the project to attend the show
and tell and ask questions.

#### Plan

Sprints begin with a planning session, where the whole team (dxw and the client)
review and prioritise the stories in the backlog. Working together, we discuss
the stories that we are prioritising for the current sprint, ensuring that they
are well-formed and understood by everyone in the team.

Often this involves writing new stories and updating existing ones, but we try
to avoid this becoming the main purpose of the meeting. In our experience,
sprint planning is much more useful when the stories are written in advance.

During this session, developers discuss the effort required to finish each
story. We discuss effort so we know whether we have a reasonable amount of
stories to work on and we’re confident as a team that we can get through the
stories in the backlog.  Sometimes we will estimate stories. We do this based on
complexity, not the time we think it will take to finish it.

Once estimated, stories are prioritised by the client and put into the backlog
for the sprint. Developers also advise the rest of the team at this point if
there are any technical dependencies the client should be aware of. By the end
of the session, the full team should be confident about the goal of the sprint
and what is going to be worked on.

#### Inspect and adapt our work

At the end of every sprint, a delivery lead facilitates a retrospective where
the team discuss how the sprint went. We talk about what went well, what didn't,
and what we can do to to improve how we work for the next sprint. These sessions
are attended by all the people involved in delivering the sprint along with the
client team. We use retros to make sure we acknowledge and continue to do the
things that are working well, and also commit to change anything that can be
improved.

#### Focus on user needs

At regular intervals the team look through the sprint backlog to re-prioritise
and update stories, based on things we've learned during delivery and from user
research. Stories that are no longer needed are deleted, stories that may be
needed later or are blocked are put on hold (we call this the icebox) and all
other stories are re-prioritised for future sprints.

We have regular user research playback sessions to ensure the whole team is
involved in understanding user needs, feedback from user testing and what
iterations means for the users.

#### User stories

We document development work that needs to be completed by writing [user
stories](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/agile/writing-user-stories.html).

A user story is a succinct explanation of some work that will be done in order
to meet the needs of a particular kind of user. They are usually structured into
a sentence, of the form:

> As a [kind of user], so that I can [meet a need], I want [a feature in the
product]

Breaking everything down into user stories allows us to be confident that
everything we develop is meeting [user
needs](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/user-centred-design/user-needs.html).
By using this story format, we directly associate a feature or piece of
functionality we're building with the group of users who want it and the needs
that they have.

We keep lists of stories in Trello. We use user needs to create the title of a
story, by rearranging it to reflect the new state of the system after the work
is complete. For example:

> As an administrator, so that I can ensure I don't publish defamatory comments,
I want to be able to review and approve comments before they are shown.

Might have a title of:

> Administrators can review and approve comments before they are shown

Each user story will also contain a list of acceptance criteria. Acceptance
criteria are a collection of statements about the functionality of the service
which must be true in order for the story to be considered "done".

For more information about writing good stories, we recommend reading User
Stories Applied by Mike Cohn. There is a copy of this book in the dxw library.

#### Lifecycle of a story

<!-- TODO: This section should be an explanation of what happens to a story as
it is worked on, focussing on "why" rather than "how" and explaining the
philosophy. -->

There are several states that a story has to go through in order to be deployed
to production. We use Trello and physical story boards to keep track of which
stage a given story is in.

* **In progress**: A developer has started working on the story, making changes
  to the product to ensure that each acceptance criterion is met
* **Awaiting review**: The developer has finished the story and is ready for a second
    developer to review the technical aspects of the story in a pull request
* **Code review**: The story is being reviewed by
    the second developer who leaves feedback if the pull request is not ready to
    be merged and needs further work
* **dxw/client review**: The two developers
    have finished the review and the story is now merged and pushed to staging. It
    is ready for a delivery lead and the client to review against its
    acceptance criteria
* **Accepted**: The client has accepted the story and it's
  ready to deploy to production
* **Done**: The story is deployed to production

### Managing delivery

> "The delivery manager sets the team up for successful delivery. They remove obstacles, or blockers to progress, constantly helping the team become more self organising. They enable the work a team does rather than impose how it’s done."
> --<cite>[Government Digital Service](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/the-team/delivery-manager.html)</cite>

At dxw, delivery leads ensure that sprints go smoothly and that the team
remain productive. They are generally the client's first and main point of
contact, and are responsible for ensuring that we deliver good work.

Throughout a sprint, delivery leads ensure that agreed process is followed,
organising and facilitating discussions as required. They run sprint planning
and retrospective sessions. They run daily standups with the dxw and client
teams to keep everyone informed and to discuss and resolve any blockers.

Outside of these sessions and standups, they maintain regular communication with
the client and the delivery team to respond quickly to challenges as they arise.
If priorities change during a sprint, the delivery lead works with the client
to understand and plan for the impact of the change.

## Professions

### Leadership

At dxw, we believe that great teams need great leaders.

#### Leadership principles

Whether or not they are in a formal management role, leaders at dxw are guided by these principles.

1. **Set an example**

   Leaders at dxw demonstrate our values in everything we do. We set high standards of behaviour and inspire both colleagues and clients to do the same.

   We demonstrate fairness, integrity, and resilience, and build trust with our actions.

1. **Look after people**

   Leaders at dxw promote the wellbeing of individuals, teams and communities. We encourage a supportive culture and inclusive working arrangements. We prioritise 1:1 time with people to listen and understand their particular needs.

   We support and defend colleagues in difficult situations. We identify and deal with poor performance and bad behaviour.

1. **Take ownership**

   Leaders at dxw welcome responsibility and accountability. We’re proactive, pick up things that need doing without being asked and push to finish the job in hand.

   We’re the first to admit mistakes, apologise when wrong and learn for next time.

1. **Deliver for clients**

   Leaders at dxw understand how to deliver value for each client and create the conditions for dxw to do brilliant work. We are not afraid to challenge clients or ask difficult questions.

   We think commercially and push dxw to grow and strengthen as a business.

1. **Provide clarity**

   Leaders at dxw communicate clearly and concisely through the right channel. We question any decisions, goals or explanations that are vague or ambiguous and work to clarify them.

   We’re open, honest and straightforward in what we say and write. And we provide specific, understandable and useful feedback.

1. **Make good decisions**

   Leaders at dxw use evidence and judgement to make good decisions. We know that timely decisions are important, so we don’t procrastinate or fudge. We commit to collective decisions, particularly when we originally disagreed.

   We consult broadly, seek out contrary opinions, and listen to quieter voices. We make sure we can explain our decisions, with context, rationale and evidence.

1. **Point the way**

   Leaders at dxw share an inspiring vision for the future of dxw, and each individual’s part in it.

   On client and dxw projects, we make sure that colleagues understand the outcomes we want to achieve and the value that they will create.

1. **Build the future**

   Leaders at dxw hire great people. We actively look for the widest range of candidates to strengthen our diversity.

   We encourage our colleagues to learn, develop new skills, and pursue their career aspirations, whether at dxw or elsewhere. And we give people opportunity and responsibility at the right pace for them.

   We continually improve dxw capability, and the effectiveness and efficiency of our delivery. We try out new approaches and technologies and give others the time and space to do the same.

### Strategy

We create the conditions and in-house capability our clients need to deliver and keep improving great services.

#### Strategy team principles

The strategy team apply these principles to our work.

1. **Bring people together to make the right decisions**

   We facilitate activities to help organisations make good decisions, prioritise and create the momemtum for change.

1. **Focus on impact and sustainable change**

   We’re here to create significant long-term change. We won’t get involved if we don’t believe that’s possible.

1. **Question the brief**

   Before starting delivery we interrogate the brief to make sure it is clear, realistic and provides the foundation for delivery teams to start work.

1. **Meet organisational goals as well as user needs**

   We help organisations clarify their goals and set up the right measures to track performance and progress. So they can deliver better services for the people who need them.

1. **Use methods that work**

   We use established methods where we can, or develop new ones where we need to.

1. **Create the conditions to deliver**

   We set up teams to deliver and keep improving once we’re gone.

### Delivery management

#### Delivery management principles

Delivery leads at dxw are guided by these principles.

1. **Maintain diplomacy**
  * Encourage calmness and patience
  * Ensure all voices are heard in a fair way
  * Be proactive to get stuff done

1. **Demonstrate leadership**
  * Have the autonomy to lead and to say no
  * Empower delivery teams to do great things
  * Coach others to get the best from them

1. **Show strength & resilience**
  * Protect the team so they can focus
  * Remove blockers and distraction
  * Provide context and see the bigger picture

1. **Enable, empower & encourage**
  * Create space for the team to deliver and individuals to thrive
  * Build up trust with team / client / stakeholders to support decision making and progress
  * Be supportive and demonstrate positivity with a focus on delivery

1. **Prioritise learning & improving**
  * Actively learn from what we do
  * Take responsibility to ensure that learning feeds back into what we do next
  * Facilitate communication and constructive conversation

### Product management

#### Product management principles

Product managers at dxw follow these principles.

1. **Set the destination, don’t chart the course**

   Product managers help empower multidisciplinary teams by refining and articulating the problem the team is trying to solve, and the outcomes they‘re trying to produce.

   Communicating the vision and goals for a project through a clear and well-maintained roadmap is a core part of product management.

1. **Define and defend scope**

   Getting agreement from everyone involved is crucial to successful delivery.

   Product managers should set the direction at the start of a project, and continue to articulate, communicate and defend the scope throughout, so that the team can focus on delivering.

1. **Convert insight into action**

   User research helps inform our objectives, goals, and priorities by telling us more about the problems users are having with the current state, or the needs they have for something different.

   Product managers need to be able to balance user research insights with constraints like time, capacity, and strategic objectives to prioritise the next most important thing.

   Product managers help the team to work together, across disciplines, to identify potential solutions before choosing a way forward.

1. **Have a service mindset**

   Product managers recognise that a digital product is often not the whole solution to a problem, and that the people operating a new service day to day are users too.

   We think about the processes and systems around a product, including how those might change.

1. **Communicate clearly how short term outcomes contribute to long term goals**

   Product managers need to own and articulate a vision that is consistent and meaningful to everyone with an interest in the project, from the delivery team all the way through to the most senior stakeholders, and users.

1. **Be present, collaborative, and consistent**

   Being available to the team to discuss the unexpected and share in the decision making is central to building empowered and protected teams.

   Product Managers should regularly and actively communicate, review and defend our decisions - especially the unplanned or unexpected ones.

1. **Maintain a focus on outcomes**

   In the midst of delivery, key dates can loom large, and teams can be diverted onto things which seem urgent but aren‘t important.

   Product managers must help teams and stakeholders remain focused on outcomes over outputs, facilitating discussion and making space for reflection.

1. **Lead without authority**

   Product managers shouldn‘t be bottlenecks. Product managers and delivery leads work together to build skilled multidisciplinary teams and create the space in which those disciplines can do their best work.

   Product managers are open to new tools, techniques and approaches, working with teams to find what works.

1. **Take blame, give credit away**

   Good product managers leave their ego at the door, taking negative feedback on board whilst ensuring the team are rightly recognised for their work and achievements.

   Being kind is more important than being right - it‘s a good rule of thumb to enter every conversation without assuming that you already know most, or best.

1. **Strong opinions, softly held**

   Product managers make the best decisions based on the available information with confidence, staying open to the possibility that things could change when more information is available in the future.

   Product managers communicate the trade-offs they’re making and the rationale for their decisions so that teams can understand how a decision was reached, even when they don’t agree.

1. **Set clear priorities**

   Product managers work with the team, stakeholders and users to define priorities, and ensure these are clear.

1. **Measure outcomes**

   Product managers facilitate and work with service designers and business analysts to work out key metrics and goals for the product and work with the team to define roadmaps to achieve these goals.

Hat tip to [Ross Ferguson](https://medium.com/@rossferg/the-principles-that-make-me-a-better-product-manager-9e50814d184f) for inspiring several of these principles.

### User research

At dxw, we believe in making decisions based on evidenced user needs. As user researchers, we help multidisciplinary teams learn about users and recognise the value of user research. There is no single right way of doing this, but as a team, we need to stay unified in the way we approach, do, and talk about research.

#### User research principles

Our principles are not rules. They guide our work, keep us improving as a team, and working with, not for our clients.

1. **Help teams understand people**

   Researchers at dxw help our teams build a deep understanding of the people who use our services. We know that‘s the best way to create public services that work well for the people who need them.

   We are facilitators, not gatekeepers. We actively involve our colleagues and clients in research. And openly share what we do, how we do it and why it‘s important.

1. **Find the truth. Tell the truth**

   Researchers at dxw create strong evidence and reliable answers so our teams can act with confidence. We are bold and focus on what‘s most important.

   We know we can learn things that are unexpected and challenging. So we communicate clearly and sensitively to help everyone make the best decision.

   (Credit to the great [Dana Chisnell](https://twitter.com/danachis/status/802930860030918656) and the [United States Digital Service](https://www.usds.gov/mission) for this one)

1. **Take ethics seriously**

   Researchers at dxw know that the safety and trust of participants is our responsibility. We think about the ethics of our research at every step. From how we recruit participants and get their informed consent, through how we store and use the data we collect, to how we share our findings.

1. **Be methodical, but not rigid**

   Researchers at dxw know that the quality of our findings depends on the quality of our methods. We use tried and tested methods, and take time to reflect and continually improve our practice.

   But we also understand that context is important. So we use the best approach for the question at hand and adapt our ways of working to fit the client and the project.

1. **Learn, share and adapt**

   Researchers at dxw work in an agile way. We do research and analysis in small batches so we can continuously share and adapt to what we learn.

1. **Make research inclusive**

   Researchers at dxw know how important it is that public services work for all the people who need to use them. We help teams understand the needs of all their users, and do research activities that everyone can participate in.

1. **Build on existing evidence**

   Researchers at dxw help clients build on the knowledge and data they already have. We combine existing knowledge, poorly understood data and new research into a coherent picture.

1. **Accept and admit constraints**

   Researchers at dxw do the best research we can within the constraints we have. We acknowledge and share the limits of our research and our findings. And we advocate for more research when it‘s needed to achieve the project outcomes.

#### User research guidance

The Playbook includes detailed guidance on [how we do user research at dxw digital](http://playbook.dxw.com/#/guides/how-we-do-user-research).

The guide starts with the user research workflow, which describes the things that user researchers usually do on projects, and then provides further guidance and links to resources for specific topics.

### Design

#### Design team principles

Designers at dxw follow these principles:

1. **Have faith in your instinct and experience**

   Don’t throw away your gut instinct, but do filter decisions through the lens of research and data.

1. **Be contagiously optimistic**

   Help others to see what’s possible. Share your excitement. Spread enthusiasm.

1. **Embrace the overlap**

   Good work happens in the spaces between disciplines. A difference of opinion is a good thing. Bring others along on the journey.

1. **Simple is better**

   We do the hard work to make things simple. We aim for simplicity and clarity in the things we design, and the ways in which we design them.

1. **Don’t be afraid to try, and to share**

   Every time something is not quite right, it’s an opportunity to learn and adapt.

1. **Interrogate everything to understand the user and their needs**

   Be constantly curious. Never stop asking questions. We can never be too empathetic.

1. **Communicate constantly and confidently**

   Record decisions so we can learn from them. Share them. Make design a team sport.

1. **Use the right tools and methods for the desired outcome**

   It might be pen and paper, software, or a conversation. Choose the appropriate fidelity for the given task.

1. **Good design is never finished**

   There is always room for improvement. Design can always be made better. There is a difference between ‘done’ and ‘finished’.

### Commercial Operations

We are the team that enables and encourages dxw to achieve its mission(s) and uphold its values.

#### Commercial Operations Team Principles

##### Things we do:

1. We deliver the dxw business plan. In particular, we recruit the best people to meet our mission, manage our finances to allow sustainable growth, and track performance of objectives to measure ourselves.

1. We are the front door for staff and clients. We help, support and enable dxw to meet its mission and uphold its values. We do this by being empathetic and put people over process.

1. As commercial experts we take the burden away from our delivery teams, and make sure our people, as well as our suppliers get paid, whilst also ensuring our clients pay us on time.

1. The unit of delivery is always the team, so we ensure staff wellbeing by providing a safe and inclusive environment. We also support our people to thrive in all stages of their careers, ensuring they have chance to continually learn, as well as excellent facilities and the right tools to enable them to succeed in their careers.

1. We ensure dxw is compliant with all the relevant company and employment regulations, ensuring we have ISO27001 accreditation, abide by GDPR guidelines and insurance.

1. Commercial and business operations can be thankless, but to manage expectations we remain resilient and take responsibility for our work by effectively communicating about what we do and why we do it.

##### Behaviours

1. Empathetic to our users / staff / suppliers / clients.

1. Support each other to support the team.

1. Commercial accuracy and responsibility.

1. We are balanced, organised and resilient.

1. People over process, to maintain our unique, small-company, culture.

1. We are proud of what we do and are confident enough to talk about it.

1. We manage expectations by taking responsibility for our work and communicating what we do and why.

1. We _are_ the company values.

### Sales and marketing

#### Sales and marketing team principles

The sales and marketing teams at dxw digital follow these principles:

1. **Start from solid foundations**

   We work with potential and current clients to understand their needs and how we can deliver value - seeking out   opportunities for mutual growth.

   We support our clients to make the right buying decisions, ensuring we focus on positive outcomes for users and making the most of the resources available.

   We work closely with our delivery team so we can be open with clients about who will be available to do the work and realistic delivery timescales.

1. **Build positive relationships**

   We work in partnership with our clients, and are open and transparent at all times.

   We remain responsible and accountable to both our delivery teams and clients, ensuring that we represent them in the right way and can deliver on our commitments.

   We give our clients the opportunity and platform to talk openly about their experience of working with us.  We listen to what they’re telling us - about what’s going well and what we need to do differently - and constantly work to improve things.

1. **Find the right work**

   We welcome new opportunities, and actively seek input from the dxw team to help us decide whether an opportunity is ‘dxw digital shaped’.

   We consider the ethical implications of the work - does it help to create better digital public services that make people’s lives better?

   We will only take on work that’s a good fit for the team - that won’t put us under undue strain, where our team will be safe and we can have a positive relationship with our client.

1. **Show the work and the team**

   We’re an active part of the digital and tech community that’s working to build better public services.

   We talk openly about what we’re doing and why, what we’re learning along the way and share our ideas and expertise. We blog all the time.

1. **Have a clear voice**

   Whenever we communicate - online or face-to-face - we’re always clear, to the point, friendly, and professional. You can rely on us to say it like it is.

   We champion the things that matter to us and our clients. We’re bold and pragmatic and seek to influence change for the better in the way public services are created and delivered.

1. **Communicate with a purpose**

   When we communicate, it’s to explain what we’re doing and the impact of our work so our clients and potential clients understand our areas of expertise and how we can help them.

   We’re open about our values and the way we work in dxw digital. We give our team members a voice because we’re proud of our diverse and inclusive culture.

## Hosting and supporting services

### GovPress

GovPress is dxw's hosting platform which hosts the WordPress websites we build
for the public sector.

We built GovPress because our clients were frequently asking us for secure,
scalable and highly available hosting, but didn't have enough budget to be able
to build an appropriate hosting platform for their service. This is fair
enough, because they shouldn't have to. We built GovPress to meet this need,
and it is now used by most of our clients.

You can read more about GovPress at
[www.govpress.com](https://www.govpress.com).

We're in the process of building a new container-based hosting platform which
will be able to support services that aren't built in WordPress. Watch this
space.

### Support helpdesk

The dxw Technical Operations team build, manage and run GovPress, as well as
provide first-line support.

We use [Zendesk](https://dxw.zendesk.com) to manage support requests. Any
incidents, requests for us to fix a problem or make a change to a site must
come to us via Zendesk as a ticket. We use tickets to manage requests in order
to:

* Keep track of all the things we need to do, and what state they're in
* Have a record of the changes we're asked to make
* Ensure that we only accept change requests from people who are authorised
* Generate data about how much staff time is spent on each client's issues.

If a client asks us to do something in person, on the phone or via email, we
politely ask them to visit the [dxw Zendesk](http://dxw.zendesk.com/) instead,
and submit a ticket there. This is so that:

* We can keep track of the issue from report to solution, and ensure that it's
  assigned to the right person;
* We don't risk misunderstanding the problem by writing it down based on a
  verbal explanation
* We can formally track the changes that people ask for, by documenting them in
  tickets that we can look at later if need to
* We can be sure that requests are coming from people who are authorised to
  submit them

For these reasons, we do not do any work on a client website or service unless
we are working on a development sprint or on a relevant ticket. We think this
is really important.

#### Support sprints

We work on tickets by having a developer on a support sprint. Developers are
assigned to support for two weeks at a time and work on tickets for the
duration of the sprint. If there is a ticket they need another developer to
help with, this work is scheduled.

#### Client experience (AKA: ticket principles)

##### Be responsive

Clients expect us to deal with their issues promptly. But they understand that
this isn't always possible. They are generally forgiving of the fact that we're
sometimes busy, and they understand that some issues are complex and require
long investigations.

The thing most clients value above all else is being kept informed of what is
going on. The first quality of a good ticket experience is responsiveness: we
keep clients informed of what we're doing, even if there hasn't been much
progress.

##### Stick to your commitments

It's really important that we do what we say we'll do, and don't promise things
we can't deliver. If we're unable to deal with a ticket in good time and leave
an update saying we'll work on it tomorrow, we must meet that commitment.

It is doubly bad to fail to meet a commitment and not say anything about it.
Responsiveness is always the priority. So if for some reason we couldn't do what
we said we'd do, we always respond to say so.

##### Make a good impression

In tickets as in all things, we are mindful of dxw's [values](#values).

Most clients' routine contact with us is via support tickets, so it's vital that
our clients' experience of the support system is a good one, and also that they
have a positive experience with us personally.

We are always considerate, and think about what style of response is best. For
example, technical clients may appreciate short, information-dense responses,
while non-technical clients might perceive that style as rude or dismissive.

In general:

* We are personable, friendly and helpful
* If things look like they're going to get difficult or the client seems unhappy, we are honest and assume good faith
* If we screw something up, we take responsibility and apologise. If the client seems very upset, we let a delivery lead know.
* If we do become annoyed or frustrated by a ticket, we respond later or speak to a delivery lead about reassigning it.

##### Don't over-deliver

Of course, every client would like us to go the extra mile to solve their
problem. But they also understand that to do that for them would mean bad
service for another client - or that we never get to their issue, because we're
too busy gold-plating the solution to someone else's.

While we do everything we can to make sure the client is happy with our
solution, we are also mindful of what's practical. We don't do serious bits of
development work on tickets, or trial new approaches. We don't play with new
tools or sink hours into interesting bugs. We set those things aside, and do
them later.

The main purpose of a ticket is to take some action that solves the problem, as
quickly as possible. Generally speaking, we do the most time-efficient thing
that we can. Of several potential solutions that solve the problem, assuming
none is a bad one, we do the one which can be implemented the most quickly.

#### Workflow

All tickets that arrive through the support helpdesk go through a number of
stages in the course of being worked on.

##### New tickets

When a new ticket arrives, it is automatically assigned to the Front-line
Support group. All agents in this group receive an email to alert them.

The Front-line Support group is monitored by whoever in the Technical
Operations team is on call. It's their responsibility to review tickets as they
arrive, and decide what to do with them. If they can deal with the issue, or if
can complete an [initial investigation](#initial-investigation) into the
problem, they do so.

If not, they will assign it to the developer on support. Sometimes tickets are
assigned to a delivery lead if it requires a conversation with the client or
looks like chargeable work.

As tickets are arriving, we also think about whether they might be related to
other tickets that we've already received. For example, if we get several
tickets from different clients about similar-sounding issues, that might be
indicative of a wider problem. Or, if a single client sends lots of tickets
within a short time, it might be wise to assign a delivery lead to oversee
them all and ensure that the requests make sense when considered as a group.

##### Assignments

No matter what group you're in, when a ticket is assigned to you, you will
receive an email. The ticket will also appear on your home screen in Zendesk.

When you are assigned a ticket, it is your responsibility to review it and take
action. You must either solve the ticket or pass it on to someone who can.

A variety of issues can be reported through the helpdesk, so it's not possible
to give an exhaustive guide on how to solve tickets. But there are some
articles in the [Help Centre](https://dxw.zendesk.com) which may be useful.
These articles are written for clients, but contain lots of useful information.

It's important to be proactive about solving tickets. As soon as we receive a
ticket, the clock starts ticking. Clients expect us to be
[responsive](#be-responsive) and deal with their problems promptly. If we're
not sure how to proceed with a particular ticket, we don't just let it sit
there, we ask for help from another member of the team.

Whenever we do anything at all related to a given ticket, we update it to let
the client know. Even if it's just to say that we haven't managed to figure out
what the problem is yet. If we're replying to a ticket just to update the
client, but we still need to take some action, we set its status to Open. The
same applies if you are reassigning the ticket to another agent.

If we have taken some action and are now waiting for the client to reply, we set
the ticket's status to Pending. This will remove it from the list of tickets
(until they respond).

##### Pending tickets

Pending tickets are those which we have updated with a question or a potential
solution, and which now need to be updated by the client before we can proceed.

Tickets which are Pending will also be closed automatically after a set period
of time if the client does not respond. They will get reminders before this
happens. If a Pending ticket you are assigned to is closed because the client
didn't reply in time, both you and the client will get an email, so you can open
it again if you think that's best.

Because Pending tickets will be auto-closed if there's no reply, it's also
important to check and set the *How much work was this?* field to give an
approximation of the total time the team spent on the issue. Or, select
*chargeable* if it's a ticket we'll invoice for.

When assigning a ticket to another agent, we do not set it to Pending, otherwise
they probably won't see it.

##### Recording time spent on tickets

It's important for us to know how much cumulative time is spent on support
functions.  In order to mark a ticket as solved, the ticket owner needs
to note how much time has been spent on a ticket.  However, where a ticket has
been worked on by multiple people, the resolver needs to be informed of that
time.

Anyone who spends time on a ticket before passing responsibility for it to
someone else, should leave an "Internal Note" about how much time they have
spent (rounded up to the nearest five minutes) so that the ticket resolver
can make an informed assessment.

##### Solving tickets

If we believe that we have solved the issue the client has raised, we submit it
as Solved.

If it's something the client needs to check and confirm as fixed, we submit the
ticket as Pending until they reply, and mark it Solved if they say everything's
ok.

If a client replies to a Solved ticket, it will be reopened. Sometimes clients
reply just to say thanks. If so, we set it back to Solved without comment.

It is important that Solved tickets contain some record of what we did. This is
usually not difficult, as your communication with the client will describe what
actions you've taken. But that's not always the case.

Some tickets are not raised by clients, but are raised by another agent or by an
automated process. In this situation, it's still important that tickets record
what actions we took, so we don't close them without a good update. We always
leave a couple of sentences to say what we did, even if it was minor.

##### On-hold tickets

Sometimes a ticket does not need any action imminently but is nonetheless an
important issue which we must keep track of. Renewing certificates and domain
names in good time is a good example of this kind of task.

In these situations, we turn the ticket into a task and give it a due date, and
then set it to On-hold. The helpdesk will automatically reopen the ticket ten
days before its due date, and it'll show back up in your list of Open tickets.

Only tasks with due dates should be made into On-hold tickets.

#### Deciding what to work on

You are free to work on whichever of your assigned tickets you think is most
important. But there are some important things to bear in mind.

##### Triage

We all have limited time. We try to spend it wisely. All other things being
equal, it is better to spend half an hour solving each of four tickets than to
spend two hours on one issue.

##### Procrastinating

We don't procrastinate about dealing with difficult tickets. Most of our SLA
breaches happen when a complex ticket arrives and is assigned to a busy person.
In this situation, it's only natural that we prefer to do other work first. But
it is vital that we don't let the hard tickets gather dust while we crack
through the easy ones, so we try to be mindful of this bias.

##### Priority

The priority of tickets is important, and we must be biased towards dealing with
more urgent tickets before less urgent ones.

Zendesk can help us to balance these factors. When you log in and land on the
dashboard, you will see a list of your tickets, ordered by age and priority.

Unless there's a good reason not to, we deal with tickets in the order they are
displayed. There's a "play" button at the top right hand corner of the ticket
list that will serve up each ticket in turn, moving to the next as you mark
things open, pending or solved.

Zendesk knows each ticket's age, the time it's been since it was updated, its
priority and the time left until we breach our SLA. Generally speaking, it makes
good decisions about priority.

Each ticket's priority should be reviewed regularly: whenever we update a
ticket, we check the priority to make sure it's still right.

#### Initial investigation

When we pick up new tickets or are assigned one where no investigation has yet
happened, we complete an initial investigation. If you don't have the right
skills for the issue or are not familiar enough with the project to know what to
do, reassign the ticket to a more appropriate agent, or consult a delivery
manager.

It's important that we don't make changes unless we thoroughly understand what
we're being asked to do, and are confident that the client understands and has
approved of the implications of the change. To that end, there are a few things
we do when a new ticket arrives.

##### Complete all fields

All the fields on a ticket are important. Early in the process, we fill them
in - including the type.

The priority and project fields are especially important. We always review them
to make sure that they are correct. dxw's [Service Level
Agreement](https://dxw.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/205117695) explains what
the different priorities mean.

##### Understand the request

We make sure that we understand the request that the client is making. When
tickets arrive, they do not always describe the issue clearly. There is some
[guidance](https://dxw.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/200814655-Tips-for-submitting-tickets)
you can send to clients if their tickets are often difficult to understand.

If you're not sure what the client is asking, ask questions. You can call them
if you think that it would be easier just to have a conversation about the
problem.

When you've reached an understanding of the situation the client is in and what
they'd like you to do about it, write it on the ticket in an internal note, so
that any other agent looking at the ticket has an easier time.

##### Replicate the bug

If the issue is a bug, we replicate the behaviour the client has reported before
working on a fix. It's important that we can reliably and repeatably create the
conditions necessary for the bug to arise before we start working on it. If we
don't do this, we can't tell whether we've fixed the problem.

Sometimes, we find that the steps we need to follow are not exactly the same as
those given by the client. If so, add an internal note with your findings.

##### Ensure the client has understood and approved the change

When presented with a problem, clients don't always ask us to do the most
appropriate thing to fix it. Sometimes we can think of a better solution.
Sometimes the change the client asks for has some implication that they haven't
considered.

Our helpdesk service is advisory, so we're not afraid to suggest alternative
approaches and ideas if we have them - including where there's a better
solution, but [at a cost](#charging-for-ticket-work). We always give options
when we can.

If you are in any doubt as to whether the client has understood and approved the
change that you are about to make, explain it to them and ask for their explicit
approval. It's fine to do this on the phone if that is more convenient, but if
you do, update the ticket with a comment what you said and what was agreed.

### Managing tickets

There are a few background tasks that we do to ensure that helpdesk work goes
smoothly.

#### Suspended tickets

The work in this section is the responsibility of **Front-line support agents**.

Only people who have been registered in Zendesk are permitted to submit tickets.

Tickets received from unregistered users are put into the Suspended Tickets view
with a reason of "permission denied". We receive a digest email on the systems
email to let us know what is in the suspended queue.

If we see a suspended ticket that looks legitimate, we create a ticket for the
project owner and ask if the user should be added. If they can be added, we
create them in Clients and Projects as a contact on the appropriate project, and
then recover the ticket from the suspended list. If the new user shouldn't be
added, we delete the ticket and ask the project owner to resubmit it if
required.

If we receive a suspended ticket from someone who is not a contact but is adding
useful information, add the information to the relevant ticket as an internal
note and then delete the suspended ticket. We make sure the internal note
mentions who the information came from.

Unauthorised users submitting tickets will not receive any response, so it is
important to check the suspended list frequently.

Zendesk also suspends tickets that it suspects may be spam or autoresponders.
It's hard to monitor the contents of the suspended tickets view if it's
cluttered. So we clean up the list regularly. We delete anything that doesn't
need to be recovered or noted.

#### SLA breaches

The work described in this section is the responsibility of **delivery
managers**.

We monitor Zendesk for tickets that are or will shortly be breaching our SLA.
There are two views to facilitate this: *SLA breaches* and *Approaching SLA
breaches*. The number of tickets in these views is also displayed on the
monitoring dashboard in the office.

Tickets will appear in these views if they have missed or are about to miss our
targets for responsiveness. Our internal SLA targets are more stringent than our
contractual SLA, so other than in extreme circumstances, we treat SLA breaches
as a prompt for action rather than a crisis.

If a ticket is breaching the SLA or will soon do so, we take some action to
avoid the breach. If the assignee is available, they may wish to prioritise work
on that ticket. If not, it may be sensible to assign the ticket to someone else
who can deal with the problem.

Always remember that all tickets except monitoring issues are subject to the
SLA: whether raised by someone within dxw or by a client.

If you think we have breached the SLA badly, or have breached our contractual
SLA, we contact the client to apologise and let them know what we're going to do
about it.

#### Sampling

The work described in this section is the responsibility of **Harry**.

It's important for us to be able to provide good feedback to the team and catch
potential problems before they become serious, so we review a sample of solved
tickets at regular intervals.

If any problems are found with tickets, we give feedback, discuss as a team and
change our process if necessary.

#### Following up on bad client feedback

The work described in this section is the responsibility of **delivery
managers**.

After each ticket is solved, the requester is emailed to ask for their feedback
on our performance. Our feedback is generally very good.

However, we do occasionally get feedback that we have not dealt with a ticket
well. In these situations, we always follow up with the ticket requester
personally to understand what went wrong. If applicable, we offer to do more
work to set the situation straight.

We then also think about what feedback could be given to whoever worked on the
ticket, whether it would be sensible to discuss the problem as a team and change
our process if necessary.

### Scope

Clients can use the support service to ask for help with any aspect of the
service we provide, including help with using the admin and advice on getting
the best out of their site.

But there are some limitations. Under the support service, we do not:

* Add any new functionality requiring anything beyond extremely trivial
  development. This does not generally include installing plugins: checking and
  installing plugins is allowed
* Alter the source code of a plugin or library maintained by a third party
* Do things that the client can do for themselves in the WordPress
  administration area. In this situation, help them by letting them know the
  steps to take to achieve whatever they're trying to do.
* Other than by prior arrangement, communicate on the client's behalf with the
  operators of third-party services that the site uses
* Install a plugin that fails an inspection
* Do research to identify plugins to solve a particular
  problem. It's fine to recommend something that we already know of, but in this
  situation, we usually ask the client to do some searches on the WordPress
  Directory and suggest one, which we can then check and install.
* Fix complex problems that come up after a plugin or WordPress core update is
  applied. Exactly what constitutes a complex problem is at our discretion. But
  if we've spent a couple of hours on an updated-related bug and it's still not fixed,
  we're probably dealing with one.
* From time to time, we may make an exception to these restrictions. If you
  think that might be appropriate, ask Harry or a delivery lead. In all the
  above cases, we can offer to quote for the required work.

Finally, there is an overarching principle that we don't do anything on a ticket
that is very time consuming or that is objectively a bad idea. If you think
you're in this situation, ask a delivery lead for advice.

#### Charging for ticket work

If you decide that a ticket asks for work to be done which falls outside this
scope, then the work is chargeable. In this situation, we reassign the ticket to
a delivery lead with an explanation.

It is good to try to think of alternative approaches that we could do under our
support service before taking this step - seek advice if you're unsure.

The delivery lead you assign the ticket to will then treat it as a
[lead](#leads), and contact the client to make a plan.

## Sales

### Typical projects

We make most of our money by researching, designing and building web sites and
apps. These are always for public sector organisations. Broadly speaking, they
are either informational services ([corporate
websites](https://www.judiciary.gov.uk),
[campaigns](https://www.greatbusiness.gov.uk), intranets) or transactional
services ([making payments, bookings, reporting
things](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NN5B9rL_Hxs)). Sometimes they're a bit
of both.

In so doing, we try to make sure that the organisations we're working with will
be able to operate their new services well and sustainably. This sometimes
involves work that an agency might not normally do, like advising an
organisation's leaders on how their teams could be restructured, or on what
their digital strategy could be.

More directly, we earn money by scheduling people to work on solving problems,
finding things out, or building things. We charge for this work by the day, and
sell it in batches of days. Everyone is billed at the same day rate.

We also make some of our money by hosting some of the services that we build,
and by selling subscription-based products that are related to the rest of our
work.

### Leads

Most of our leads arrive via email as a result of recommendations and
word-of-mouth. Some arrive via more formal channels like framework agreements or
helpdesk tickets. Leads might arrive to anyone's email account. We try to make
sure things arrive in the sales email account wherever we can.

When any lead arrives, we record it in
[PipelineDeals](https://www.pipelinedeals.com/home) as a *Deal*. However, we
also use PipelineDeals to record information about projects we have sold. So, we
don't refer to anything in PipelineDeals as a "Deal". We either call it a
*lead*, or after it's sold, an *order*.

We record as much information as we can about leads when they arrive. A lead
should always be described in enough detail that someone else in the team could
pick it up and work on it if needs be. That means that we always record a
sensible name, the details of the organisation and the contact information of
the person we're talking to. If they have provided any documents, we upload
those into PipelineDeals as well.

Leads go through several stages during their life, to show whether we're waiting
for more information, waiting for a meeting, writing a proposal and so on.

When the process ends, a lead will either be [won](#winning-work) or
[lost](#losing-work).

### Qualifying a lead

Before we spend too much time thinking about or working on a lead, we need to
make sure that the work and the client are a good fit for us, and that we're a
good fit for them.

To do this, we:

* Ensure that we understand what they need, and what their vision is
* Ensure that there are no overt signs that they are not able to work in an
  agile way. Check explicitly, if an opportunity arises
* If possible, check that their budget is enough for the work they need
* Make sure the work that they need is something we can do
* Check that we'd be able to complete the work in time for whatever deadlines
  they have

When we mark a deal as Qualified, we update the summary to ensure that it
accurately reflects the client's user needs and vision.

### Budgets

Clients won't always be happy to talk about their budgets, but [we do need to
know](https://medium.com/@monteiro/why-i-need-to-know-your-budget-a61ec864c898).
If they absolutely can't tell us, we do our best to guess at what it probably
is, based on the information we have.

Where we don't think we could do what the client needs within their budget, we
explore alternative options with them that are more affordable. Sometimes this
works out, sometimes not. That's ok. Where it does, it tends to be because we've
made a good case that it's better to have a small feature set that works really
well than a large one that's slightly disappointing.

Where clients have a larger budget than we think they need, we say that too.
This usually means explaining why we're able to do the work for less than they
thought. We also think about what extra things we could do to improve their
chances of success, and suggest extra work they could do.

Where a budget is disclosed that's more than we think is necessary, we usually
propose a piece of work that uses that budget fully. But we're always open, and
tell them that we've done this, and that we'd be delivering more than the
minimum. And we're always happy to win a smaller bit of work than the client
thought they'd need. We try to structure these proposals so that the extra work
is easy to remove.

### Sales meetings

Wherever possible, we meet prospective clients before writing a proposal. This
is because face-to-face conversation is the most efficient way to communicate,
and the projects we bid for are often complex. Often, this meeting is the way we
qualify a lead.

By the end of this meeting, we should make sure that we understand:

* Who the client's users are
* The user needs the client is trying to meet
* Their current vision for how those needs will be met
* Any notable technical requirements
* What the project's budget and deadlines are
* How many suppliers are likely to be bidding
* When they need to receive our proposal by

This meeting usually involves quite a bit of discussion about the project. In
those discussions, we speak freely and openly, offering advice where appropriate
and making any suggestions we might have. Be as [helpful](#helpful),
[positive](#positive) and [creative](#creative) as you can.

It's important that we use this meeting to find out the information that we need
to write a good proposal. But it's just as important to prove our expertise, to
deliver value early and to leave the client with a positive first impression.

### Proposals and tenders

If the project is being tendered via a fixed process (like the Digital Services
Framework) we'll respond by filling in a form that the client provides. These
forms are not all the same, and the questions vary. If you're involved in this,
have a good conversation with someone who's done it before first.

If we're writing a proposal following our own format, you'll have a proposal
template to start from. The main things you'll need to write are:

* A description of the project's background. How did they get to the point
  they're at now?
* A description of the client's vision. What are they trying to do?
* An initial set of epics. How does the client believe their vision will be met?
* A cost for the work. How many sprints do we estimate we will we need to
  deliver the work?
* Details of any other work we'll do, like user research or
  usability testing.
* A rough timeline for when the sprints and other work will
  happen.

There are lots of examples of these proposals that anyone can read if they like.

### The shape of a good project

There aren't any strict rules about what projects we take on, except that the
ultimate client must be a public sector organisation. But there are things that
make some projects better for us than others. Good projects generally:

* Require 6 weeks of development work or more, so that there's time for at least
  3 sprints
* Are for clients who understand agile processes or are keen to learn them
* Include a reasonable amount of user research and usability testing
* In the case of central government clients, are ones which have gone through
  [spend controls](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/technology/spending-controls.html)
  and will be [service assessed](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/digital-by-default/assessments-at-gds.html)
* Have a budget sufficient to complete the work to a high standard

### Winning work

When we win work, we mark it as Won in PipelineDeals. We amend the budget,
closing date and services sold if necessary. We write to the client to thank
them and ask them for a convenient time to meet and start the work. We create
invoices in Xero and save them as drafts, so we don't forget to bill them. And
we add the project's sprints and other work to Forecast, so that the team can
see who's working on what.

### Losing work

When we lose work, we mark it as Lost in PipelineDeals. We write to the client
to thank them for their interest and ask them for any feedback they might have.
We usually also say that we'd be happy to talk about any future work they might
have. We record the main reason we didn't win the work in PipelineDeals along
with the detailed feedback.

### Administration

There's quite a lot of work involved in given sale, as it moves through the
stages of the pipeline. To help manage this, we have tasks in PipelineDeals that
are automatically created when leads' statuses change. We can all do things to
help this process flow smoothly. Some of us are responsible for particular
tasks, which it's important to complete on time. Others will just be in a
position to help when they notice an incorrect field, a missing contact or a
missing file. We always correct these things when we can.

## Recruitment

### Basics

We use [Workable](https://dxw.workable.com) for recruitment, to help us stay
organised and keep in touch with candidates.

Each candidate moves through a number of stages before being offered a job or
declined: a screening interview via skype or phone, an interview and a work day.
The work day includes another interview.

We feel strongly that it's important to be respectful of candidates time and
interest in us, and that their attention is valuable. So we do our best to be
responsive, human and open. It's particularly important to give unsuccessful
candidates good, thorough feedback about why we haven't made them an offer.

### Job descriptions

Before we decide to advertise a new job, we write a job description. This helps
us make sure we all agree on what we need, and helps candidates to know if their
skills are a good for for the job. A good job description has three parts:

1. A description of what the person in this job will do
1. A list of their responsibilities
1. A list of the skills, experience and personal qualities they will need to be
   good at their job

There are lots of job descriptions on the website if you need inspiration. It's
important for them to be declarative ("The person with this job will...") and as
objective as possible. Throughout the rest of the process, we'll use this
document to decide what questions to ask in interviews, and to fix activities
for the work day. The skills and personal qualities need to be things that we
can have a go at understanding by asking questions and observing a candidate's
behaviour.

### How we find people

The first way we find people is through our networks. We look for people we
know. Everyone who is willing tweets about the job and shares it on Facebook and
other social networks.

The second way we find people is by advertising. We advertise jobs on
StackOverflow, Github, WorkInStartups and Unicorn Hunt. Not all jobs go on all
of these boards - we pick whatever seems most appropriate for the job.

The third way we find people is by making sure we're regularly blogging about
what we're doing, and being open about our culture, work and process. We accept
[general applications](https://www.dxw.com/jobs/general-application/) from
people who are interested in dxw but who don't fit an open job.

### Review applications

All applications arrive via Workable. We review these applications as a team to
decide who to take forward.

An application review is a very quick process. We look at the information given
by the candidate and decide if it is likely that the applicant has the skills,
experience and personal qualities that we need. If it is likely, we progress
them to the next stage.

### Screening

The purpose of the screening is to:

1. Introduce ourselves and explain a little more about the job and life at dxw
1. Talk to the candidate about their experience and explore why they are
   interested in the job
1. Decide whether you think they are quite likely to have the experience and
   personal qualities that we are looking for
1. Get an idea of the candidate's
   salary expectation

Try to keep the conversation quite high-level, and avoid going into too much
technical detail. This part of the process is more about experience and personal
qualities than about skills. Things to keep in mind:

* Does this person seem likely to embody our [values](#values)?
* Does this person have an interest in our [mission](#why-are-we-all-here)?
* Does this person have experience working in [agile environments](#agile-mindset)?

If you can find out how they heard about the job, that's useful for us to know.

Many people feel self-conscious when asking questions about salary, but it's
very important - and this is one of the few situations in daily life where
people expect the question and are not put off by it. If you're not sure how to
broach the topic, leave it to the end. When you're about to finish the call, you
can say something like:

"Thanks for talking to me. Before we finish, please could you give me an idea
the salary you'd like?"

If the candidate suggests a number that is unexpectedly high or low, it's also
worth asking what they are paid in their current role.

We avoid making any commitments during this call. Near the end, we explain that
we'll be in touch soon. Don't offer an interview there and then: that's
something we agree as a team.

After the call, you can talk about the candidate with the team if you wish, or
just make a decision. If you think it's quite likely that they have the skills,
experience and personal qualities that we need, you should take them through to
an interview.

### Interviews

Candidates who have a successful screen will be offered an interview. This is an
hour long with two members of the team.

Before going to an interview, make sure you have:

* Set aside enough time for the interview. You should leave half an hour each
  side in case the candidate is early or the interview goes long.
* Read the job description
* Read the candidate's CV
* Read the questions for the interview, and thought about whether they are the
  right things to ask

dxw interviews are informal. They are a semi-structured conversation, rather
than a Q&A. We do not recite the list of questions or keep verbose notes on
replies. The questions are there to ensure that you don't forget to cover
important ground, and as a prompt when the conversation naturally dries up.

Start with a couple of questions, and then allow the conversation to evolve
naturally. Ask questions about things they say, and try to go into more detail
on the points that you think will help you to assess their skills, experience
and personal qualities. Keep the job description in mind: this should always be
your frame of reference.

At the end of the interview, always ask the candidate if there's anything they
would like to ask you. If they have questions, answer them honestly. If they ask
about salary at this stage, or have a concern or question about the job that you
don't feel comfortable addressing, tell the candidate we'll get back to them and
make a note for an appropriate colleague to call them.

When everything's done, we thank the candidate for their time and then return to
the office and discuss the interview. As soon as possible, we put a thorough
update on Workable. This update should include the good things and bad things
about the candidate, a recommendation on whether to take them forward, and a
rationale for that recommendation. It is very important that this update is
detailed enough for us to understand what happened and why, long after everyone
involved has forgotten all about it.

If you think the candidate is very likely to have the skills, experience and
personal qualities we need, you should take them through to a work day.

The work day interview is exactly the same as the first interview, but with
different members of the team and different questions. Usually, it happens in
the first hour of the work day.

### Work day

TODO. This section to cover:

* Principles for a good work day
* Preparing a work day activity
* Letting the candidate know if they need to bring anything and how much time
  we'll need
* Making sure there is a printed or emailed explanation for what they need to do
* Discussing the results
* Offer if we are sure they are right

### Offer, joining and probation

TODO. This section to cover:

* Salary negotiation, notice periods and start date
* Eligibility to work in the UK, documentation that we need
* Background check
* Starters checklist
* The probation period, meeting and expectations
* ...more things.

### Returners' programme

dxw digital is proud to offer return to work opportunities for experienced hires who are looking to re-enter the workplace after an extended period of time away.
We’re running a pilot to begin with to see how this works for us and the people joining us. We’ll start by taking on one or two people for 3 to 6 months - depending on the role and circumstances. There’s potential to become a permanent member of the team at the end of the placement, but this isn’t guaranteed.
Initially this opportunity will only be offered within our London team, with a view to including our Leeds office as the team there grows.

#### Who supports you?

You will be supported by our people team from the point of application.
If you’re invited into our recruitment process, it will consist of a one hour interview followed by a collaborative activity with the team which will be sent to you 24 hours in advance so you have time to prepare.
The interview will be an informal, semi-structured conversation where there will be the opportunity for us to learn more about you and your experience and, just as importantly, for you to get a feel for what it’s like to work at dxw.
If you join us, you’ll be continuously supported by our people team, a line manager and a mentor within the same field. You‘ll have regular check ins with the team where you can speak openly about anything that’s on your mind.

#### Client facing role

For client-facing roles we’ll start billing your time back to the client when we feel the time is right. This will be something we discuss openly during the recruitment process and through your regular check ins.

#### Internal facing roles

We’re also offering internal facing roles, for example, in our busy commercial and marketing teams who also support our sister company, dxw cyber. These roles are not billed back to our clients.

If you think this might be for you, please apply through our jobs page.

## Working arrangements

### Time

Our working hours are 10:00-18:00, Monday to Friday. Some people work different
hours by arrangement. Anyone is free to do that as long as their hours of work
don't make it hard for other people to get things done. For example, many people
arrive earlier than 10:00 and leave earlier, which is generally fine.

We have a short stand-up every morning, where we each tell the whole team about
a single thing we will get done that day. The stand-up is at 10:00. If you think
you're going to be late, you should let everyone know in the dedicated Slack
channel &#x23;lateness.

Most developers have maintenance responsibilities, which they do during [ticket
time](#ticket-time).

We do our very best to work to a [sustainable pace](#sustainable-pace). But
sometimes, when we're approaching a firm deadline or a launch, or a client is
having an emergency, we work longer hours than normal. From time to time,
there's an emergency that means we have to work during unsociable hours to solve
the problem. Neither of these happen very often, but they are a normal part of
life at dxw.

### Flexible working

Our policy is informed by the way we work and the way we charge clients for our time.

### How we work

#### Monday to Thursday

**Client facing**: We charge clients “time and materials” for the work we do, based on a [per person day rate](https://assets.digitalmarketplace.service.gov.uk/g-cloud-10/documents/92768/432689933684667-sfia-rate-card-2018-05-23-1413.pdf). We generally schedule team members to work on particular projects for a whole sprint at a time, and track and bill that time in half days and whole days. Delivery leads work with the finance team to track and invoice the time of the team; having regularly patterned working helps the process to run as smoothly as possible, without confusion and without taking more time than needed. Any working arrangement needs to make it straightforward to track, report and invoice for your time.

When working on a project we work as a single multi-disciplinary team. We’re often working on phases of projects where there’s a lot of unknowns and a lot of learning, so we use agile approaches and strongly favour being able to work together on problems. That’s often easier when co-located, particularly when working with clients, pairing, or participating in workshops. Any working arrangement needs to support active synchronous collaboration with the team.

**Internal facing**: Internal facing roles, in which time is not billable to a client, have a more regularly structured five day working week. Everybody is encouraged to take part in Friday work, at least occasionally.

#### dxw Fridays

We come back together as a team to work on our own projects and processes each Friday. Those Fridays are important for us to maintain our strong culture and identity, separate from the clients we work for. Our sprints start on a Wednesday and end on the Tuesday two weeks later.

### How you can work

#### Overall requirements

**Client facing**: Any working arrangement needs to allow you to participate in most Fridays and be around for the important start-of- and end-of-sprint ceremonies.

**Internal facing**: Working arrangements for these roles are slightly more flexible as the delivery needs listed above are not relevant.

#### Part time working

The normal working pattern is 5 days per week, Monday–Friday.

**Client facing**: We’re happy to talk about a 4-day week, on the basis of a fortnightly pattern to accommodate our Monday–Thursday billing week and attending some Fridays. It may be possible for some roles to work a 3 day week due to the nature of the role potentially not being full-time on a single project, this would be dependent on a number of contextual factors and discussion with the team. We’re unable to support a 3-day (or fewer) week for all other roles due to the overheads for scheduling.

**Internal facing**: We’re happy to talk about part time working for any number of days, dependent on the role.

Part time hours spread over 5 days, e.g. working 21 hours across a full week, or roughly 4 hours a day, may be possible for internal facing roles after discussion, but is likely a no for client facing roles.

Salary and holiday allowances (including bank holidays) will be prorated for part time roles.

For example, when working a 4 day week, the pro rata leave allowance will be 20 days per year of annual leave and 6.5 bank holiday days, giving a total leave allowance of 26.5 days. Bank holidays that don’t fall on a non-working day must be booked as annual leave.

#### Core and non-core hours

Everybody is expected to work seven hours a day. Normal office hours are 10am–6pm.

If you’d prefer to start a little earlier and finish a little earlier (say 9am–5pm), this is definitely ok and can happen without any formal discussion for all roles.

If you’d prefer your working hours to start after 10am or finish before 5pm (still keeping to seven hours), we’re happy to discuss this and either **might** be possible. The impact of this would be less for internal facing roles than for client facing roles, but both would require a discussion.

Salary and holiday allowances would remain the same.

#### Compressed hours

If you’d like to work compressed hours, for example; 35 hours in 4 days, 9.30am–6.45pm we would support a discussion for both internal facing roles and client facing roles but cannot guarantee this would be an option. The latter would require further consideration due to the impact on active synchronous collaboration.

35 hours in 3 days, for example, is a no across all roles. It goes against our encouragement of [sustainable pace](#sustainable-pace).

To address annual leave and bank holidays – a holiday day is 7 hours, so holiday entitlement should be considered as 175 hours and split accordingly given the compressed working day is 8 hours 45 minutes. We prefer that no member of the team should work on a bank holiday and the non working day be scheduled as such.

#### Remote working/location

Generally, we work either at our office or at client sites.

We’re happy to support working from home from a logistical or well-being related perspective. While we don’t support fully-remote roles (legacy arrangements being the exception), we can look at anything from 1–3 days per week following a discussion.

If you need to work from home for a one-off thing then that doesn’t require contractual arrangement – just talk about it with your team before the day, make sure you note it in your calendar and include it in your stand up note that day.

#### Requesting a change of working arrangement

If you would like to discuss a change to the standard working pattern, you can either speak to your Head-of directly, or, contact the People Team to facilitate and support this conversation by phone, email, slack or in one of our bi-weekly HR surgeries. In this initial conversation, we will discuss your request, look at the impact on the team and your work, agree the best time for this arrangement to begin and how it will be communicated to those necessary.

If you have an alternative working arrangement, you should make sure it’s reflected in your calendar so the rest of the team can be confident in knowing when you are and aren’t around.

### Remuneration

dxw will institute a cost of living raise each year on 1st April. The percentage
will be set by the [CPI Index](https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/inflationandpriceindices)
as of 1st April each year.

* If you have passed your probation, you will receive your raise in the April payroll.
* For those team members who joined prior to 1st April of that year, but haven't yet
  passed probation, you will receive your raise in the month you successfully complete it
  and it will be the same percentage as of 1st April CPI that year.
* If you joined on or after 1st April (that year), you will not be eligible for a cost
  of living raise until the following April.
* If you are leaving during April you will not receive the cost of living raise.

### Holiday

If you want to take time off:

* **Discuss the dates with your team**: this gives them a chance to think about
  the impact it will have on the team and the project
* **Request the holiday through BreatheHR**: we use BreatheHR to track who's
  off when so we can plan for it
* **Add your holiday to your calendar**: if someone is trying to find out where
  you are or when you're available the first thing they'll check is your
  calendar

For client-facing roles, you may also need to add your holiday to a shared or team calendar. Check with your delivery lead.

We try very hard to make sure that all holiday requests are granted,
irrespective of when they are made. But it's much easier for delivery leads
to plan ahead when they have lots of notice, so please don't leave your requests
to the last minute.

There is more information about dxw's holiday arrangements in your contract of
employment.

### Sickness

If you are sick, you must let us know by 10:00, or as soon as is reasonably
practical. Do not come to the office. If you come to the office when sick, you
may be sent home again.

If you're sick but able to work, you can work from home. Everyone at dxw should
have a laptop, and should generally take it home with them in case it's needed.
If you're sick and at home but don't have your laptop, it can be couriered to
you.

When you return to work, you must check that your sickness has been correctly
recorded in BreatheHR, and update it if necessary. If you're sick for more than
a week, you'll also need to provide a [fit
note](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-fit-note-a-guide-for-patients-and-employees).

If you're sick on more than 10 occasions or for more than 10 days over a
12-month period, we'll invite you to an absence meeting to discuss your
situation. We may agree with you an action plan and/or a review period. We may
seek medical advice. Should your attendance fail to improve after a three-month
period, we will invite you to a further absence meeting to discuss your
situation. In this meeting we will also give consideration to your possible
dismissal.

We'll also invite you to an absence meeting if you're off sick for more than
three weeks on a single occasion. In addition to the above, we will seek to
support your return to work and discuss with you any temporary or permanent
adjustments which may assist you. If you are unable to return to work in your
current role we will consider if there is a suitable alternative role. If we are
unable to reach an agreement that will permit you to return to work, we will
give consideration to your possible dismissal.

We will always only consider dismissal after we have exhausted all other
reasonable options.

### Parental leave

While many terms around parental leave are gendered, gender is not a factor in what
leave you are entitled to. What matters is whether or not you are pregnant.

#### If you're pregnant

If you're pregnant, you’ll probably be entitled to [Statutory Maternity Leave (SML)
and Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP)](https://www.gov.uk/maternity-pay-leave/leave),
which is funded by the government. They will pay you 90% of your normal salary
for the first six weeks of your leave.

Assuming you are entitled to SMP (almost everyone is), dxw will also pay you 90%
of your salary for the second six weeks of your leave. This contribution
is called Occupational Maternity Pay (OMP). Taken together, this means that
you’ll have twelve weeks of leave on 90% of your normal salary.

To be eligible for OMP, on returning to work you will need to stay at dxw for at
least three months full time (or proportionately longer if working part-time).
If you decide not to, you will have to repay any OMP you received.

When you know you are pregnant please do tell us as soon as possible, so we can
check that your working arrangements are safe for you and also ensure you are
paid for time off for antenatal appointments.

#### If you're not pregnant

If your partner is pregnant, you are adopting, or you are having a baby
through surrogacy, you’ll probably be eligible for [Statutory Paternity Leave (SPL)
and Statutory Paternity Pay (SPP)](https://www.gov.uk/paternity-pay-leave). SPL
may be taken for one or two consecutive weeks, between the date of birth and 56
days afterwards. SPP is £145.18 per week.

If you qualify for SPL and SPP, dxw will instead pay you your normal salary for
three weeks of paternity leave. If you want to take more than three weeks of
leave you can use [shared parental leave](#shared-parental-leave).

#### Shared parental leave

If you're having a baby, adopting a child, or having a baby
through surrogacy, you may be eligible for [Shared Parental Leave and
Pay](https://www.gov.uk/shared-parental-leave-and-pay). If you're interested in
taking this up, please talk to Vanessa.

#### Keep in touch (KIT) days

You have 10 paid KIT days to take during your parental leave if you wish to come in
for departmental meetings, events or just to spend some time in the office.

Any bank holidays that you miss while on parental leave will be added to your
holiday entitlement when you return to work.

### Working from home

Generally, we work either at our office or at client sites. But it's usually
fine to work from home from time to time, or in order to complete a specific
task. If you're working apart from your team, it is essential that you remain
contactable and productive, and the onus is on you to be especially
communicative.

If you are working from home, you must record this as an absence in BreatheHR.
There is a category, "WFH", for this purpose.

### dxw Support Structures

#### Facilities/Purchasing/Technical Support

Anytime you need to order something, notice a problem in the office (eg. a broken chair or dripping tap) or you need some help with your laptop or the printer - there is a Slack channel for it. If in doubt, please speak to the Business Operations team (Steph, Liam or Vee) and they’ll point you in the right direction.

```
#dxw-facilities
#dxw-purchasing
#dxw-techsupport
```

#### Helpers

When you join dxw you will be assigned a helper. This person will work closely with you for at least your first 4 months. They will do a similar job to you, help you meet members of the wider team, catch up with you on at least a 3/6/12 week basis to ensure you are receiving everything you need, and will NEVER get bored of your questions!

If you feel that you’re not getting as much time with your helper as you’d like, please speak to People Manager, Vee.

As a helper, you will be vital in ensuring you have the regular catch ups - if you are finding it hard to schedule them, please do talk to Bus Ops.

For more information on being a helper, please see the [checklist](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dc3IRZ_ze7QzMQTHO70ZC6hU8cig5ds7LN2MoHmPBe8/edit) or speak to Vee.

#### Buddies

Once you have passed your 4 month probation, we would like you to choose a buddy within the company to support you.

We recommend this person **doesn’t** work directly with you, someone in a different role and that you don’t work closely with on projects, as this will give you a second pair of ears and a whole new set of experiences to draw on.

This is not mandatory, just recommended and similarly not everyone may wish to be a buddy - don’t be afraid to ask or say no. It can be reciprocal but doesn’t have to be.  Also, if you feel that a change of buddy would benefit you for whatever reason or that you’re no longer able to be a buddy - this should also not be an awkward situation. If you have any concerns, have a chat with Vee.

If you want to know more about how the buddy system works, how often to meet and suggested discussion topics, see the buddy [crib sheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PBKwPLFsGWUUzeYAObcFLQJyTPknkLhm2HrbuHwxelU/edit?usp=sharing). This shouldn’t be a huge time commitment, ideally just a pleasant Friday meet up.

#### HR

The bi-weekly HR surgeries are there to give an opportunity for members of the team to discuss matters they might not feel able to raise with buddies/delivery leads or that are specialist to the HR function in dxw.

The list is not exhaustive but some topics might include:

* Holiday
* Sickness
* Pay
* Expenses
* Parental Leave
* Accessibility
* Probation
* Pensions
* Occupational health issues
* Contractual matters
* Working patterns/locations
* Training and career progression
* Diversity
* Stress Management
* Interpersonal issues
* Bereavement
* Grievance and disciplinary matters
* Facilitation/scheduling of conversations with Heads of, such as Salary Reviews

Bookable slots are available on Wednesdays and Fridays at 11am but Vee’s door is always open.

#### Delivery Lead

There will be opportunities within the delivery team to raise any issues or concerns you might have e.g retrospectives or planning sessions. As well as this, or if you’d prefer to talk one on one the delivery lead working on the project will be available to provide support and guidance.

#### Heads of

All members of the Heads-of team are here to help answer any questions you might have. Your own Head-of profession or location is there to provide support on matters relating to dxw and your career with us, as well as profession specific questions. Similarly, they are here if you need to escalate any job-related concerns to.

#### Our MD, Dave

At dxw, all doors are open if you need to raise a concern of just have a chat - this includes our MD. Dave is always available to discuss any questions you have about the company and its future. Equally, if you feel you need to escalate anything to him, don’t hesitate to get in touch. If he’s not around, talk to Farrah so she can arrange some time with him.

### Data protection

Though dxw doesn't control much personal data, our clients generally do. And
some of it may be held on sites that we host. Everyone at dxw has a
responsibility to keep that data safe, and process it in accordance to the [data
protection
principles](https://www.gov.uk/data-protection/the-data-protection-act).

In particular, we:

* Only process personal data as part of work on the service that we're
  contracted to provide to a client
* Don't access personal data unless we need to in order to do our jobs: don't
  read people's personal data or private communications without good reason
* We do not ever disclose people's personal data to anyone outside dxw unless
  specifically instructed, and are satisfied that it is legal to do so

If you have any questions about data protection, talk to Harry.

### Your details

Please tell us promptly if your name, address, telephone number or next of kin
details change.

### Disciplinary procedure

If you do something that we feel constitutes misconduct, or your performance in
your job has been poor, we'll talk to you about it. Hopefully, there's just been
some misunderstanding, or some problem that's easy to solve and won't recur.
Formal action will not be taken without careful investigation of the facts.

If we feel it's appropriate, we may verbally warn you, explaining what has been
unacceptable and what you need to do to improve your conduct or performance.

If your conduct or performance fails to improve following a verbal warning, or
if the matter is serious enough that a verbal warning is not appropriate, we may
hold a disciplinary meeting at which you may be accompanied or represented by a
colleague or trade union official. Following this meeting, we may:

* Conclude that no misconduct has taken place, or that there is no poor performance
* Issue you with a written warning, which will explain:
  * The nature of the misconduct or poor performance
  * The change to your behaviour or performance that you need to make
  * The time within which the change needs to be made
  * The consequences of not making the change (for example, dismissal)
* In cases of gross misconduct, dismiss you without notice

If you disagree with the outcome of this hearing, you may appeal against the
decision. You must do this in writing. If you do so, your appeal and the
circumstances of your case will be reviewed by a member of staff who has not
been involved in your case before. That member of staff and the Managing
Director will then meet to discuss your case, and will either uphold the outcome
or schedule another disciplinary meeting. dxw's decision following that meeting
will be final.

### Grievances

If you have a grievance about your employment or a complaint about another
member of staff, talk to the Managing Director as soon as possible.

The first step is to discuss the problem to see if it can be quickly resolved.

If this discussion does not satisfactorily resolve the problem, you should put
details of your grievance in writing and send it to the Managing Director. They
will arrange a meeting to discuss the matter, at which you may be accompanied by
a colleague or trade union official. Following this discussion the Managing
Director will provide a written response.

If you disagree with this response or the matter remains unresolved, you may
appeal by respond in writing. A further meeting will be arranged and the
Managing Director will again respond in writing. This decision will be final.

### Use of personal devices at work

Most of us use at least one personal device as part of our work, because it's
more convenient than carrying lots of devices around. However, no one is
obligated to use a personal device for work. If you need a dxw-provided phone,
tablet or other device, please ask for one.

Anyone who does use a personal device must take reasonable care to ensure that
it cannot compromise dxw's security. This includes implementing prudent security
measures, being mindful that your personal devices could be targeted as part of
an attack on dxw or its clients. For example, you might receive an email to your
personal email address designed to trick you into revealing a work-related
password.

Exactly what security measures are prudent may vary depending on the device and
what you're using it for. Some good practice examples are:

* Configuring screens to lock after a period of inactivity
* Ensuring that
  work-related data on the device is regularly backed up
* Encrypting storage
* Using good passwords and changing defaults
* Avoiding connecting devices to untrustworthy networks (internet cafes,
  security conferences, unencrypted (open) wifi networks, etc)
* Disposing of your device securely when you no longer need it

If you need to use a personal device but cannot take these sorts of measures,
you should get permission first.

### Report a lost or stolen device used for work

* Submit an urgent ticket by sending an email to support-emergency@dxw.com
  stating which work device was lost or stolen and when the incident had occurred
* Our support staff will be immediately notified, at any time of day

### Expenses

From time to time, some of us spend our own money at work. Most often, this is
things like:

* Train fares for unexpected travel
* Refreshments purchased for meetings with clients
* Stationery/materials, especially for workshops or events

dxw will always pay expenses which are:

* __Necessary__: We only expense things we need in order to be able to complete
  our work
* __Proportionate__: The total expense should be proportionate to the
  work at hand. In general, we try to avoid spending lots of money. For example,
  unless you have a good reason, don't get a cab to a meeting when you could get
  a train.

Wherever possible, it's best to check that expenses can be reclaimed before
incurring them.

We manage expenses using Xero. For more information about how to do this, see
the [guide on claiming expenses](/guides/claiming-expenses)

### The buddy system

The buddy system is the main way we help each other to perform well and improve
our skills. During your first couple of months at dxw, as you get to know the
team, you should choose someone and ask them to be your buddy.

As soon as you have a buddy, you'll meet regularly with them to talk about how
you're doing. You can talk about things you'd like to improve, problems you're
having or new things you'd like to do. After you've discussed what you want to
achieve, you'll decide together how best to go about it. In your regular
meetings, you'll talk about what's working well and what's not, and decide if
you need to change something.

During each meeting, we add cards to the [buddy
trello](https://trello.com/b/TmiYBPZg/buddy-chats), so that the rest of the team
know what you're working on and can help. If you want to talk about something
private, you can. You don't have to put everything on the board. But the
presumption is that we do, unless there's a good reason not to.

The buddy system is there to help us all improve, to make sure we're doing the
right kind of work and to check that we're dealing with practical problems we're
facing. It's not line management, so it's not the right place to talk about
holiday, salary, sickness, absence or anything disciplinary. If you need to talk
about those things, talk to Vee or Harry.

There are a two main ideas that underpin this system.

#### We are each responsible for our own improvement

Before this system, we had regular performance reviews. They were supposed to be
quarterly but generally ended up being annual. They didn't work very well, and
were very top-down. We don't think this is the right way.

We prefer to assume that everyone wants to improve, and will do so given the
time and space to work on it. The buddy system is there to provide a set of
prompts to ensure that this happens, and an explicit time to talk about it.

#### It's best to be open

Trying to improve things in secret is a missed opportunity to get help from
others. We may each be responsible for our own improvement, but we're also a
team: we should help each other. Recording the things we're working on with the
buddy Trello is an unintrusive, quick way to ensure that everyone else knows
too.

### Calendars and documents

We use Google Apps for Work to manage calendars, write and share documents.
There is a dxw folder where we share most of the things we write. If you can't
see it when you log in to Google Drive, you'll need to ask someone else to send
you the link, and then click "Add to drive".

When we write new things, we try to save them in a sensible folder within the
existing structure.

### Protective marking scheme

Some information that we have is confidential. We use a protective marking
scheme so that everyone understands how to handle this material, and who they're
allowed to disclose it to. All of the documents and data we hold will fall into
one of the categories below.

* __Management-in-Confidence__: internal documents whose circulation within dxw
  needs to be restricted.
* __Company Confidential__: information owned by dxw
  which would be of value to those outside the company, such as competitors, and
  whose loss or theft would potentially damage the company.
* __Client Confidential__ or __Commercial in Confidence__: information owned by
  dxw or its clients, which needs to remain confidential between dxw and the
  client.
* __Unclassified__: information, which would not be of significant commercial
  value to those outside dxw.

Some of our clients also have protective marking schemes. For example, all
central government bodies will apply the [Government Protective Marking System
(GPMS)](https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/251480/Government-Security-Classifications-April-2014.pdf).
If you are in possession of materials that are protectively marked using other
schemes, treat them as company confidential.

We take care to handle all data carefully, but when information is protectively
marked, extra requirements apply.

Because we value openness highly, we take care not to over-classify information.
We don't protectively mark information unless there is a good reason to keep it
confidential.

#### Management-in-confidence

This category is used only for dxw's most confidential information. For example,
employment records, salary details and company strategy documents.

Do not share any information with this marking with any person, whether internal
or external to dxw.

This information:

* Must be clearly labelled or described as "Management-in-confidence"
* When printed
  * Stored only in a locked container
  * Transported only via courier, recorded delivery or personally by dxw staff
  * Destroyed by cross-cut shredding when no longer required
* When digital
  * Stored in an encrypted format
  * Communicated only when encrypted or via an encrypted connection, unless emailed from one dxw.com address to another

#### Company Confidential

This category is used for information which should not be communicated outside
dxw. For example, details about how we operate security controls or internal
discussions about client work.

Exactly the same controls apply to this information as detailed under
Management-in-confidence, with the exception that Company Confidential
information can be shared within the dxw as required.

#### Client Confidential or Commercial in Confidence

This category is used for information which is disclosed to a limited group of
people external to dxw, or which is unclassified information we have received
from clients. For example, dxw proposals, presentations for pitches or planning
documents.

Unless otherwise specified, all unclassified information we receive from clients
falls into this category.

This information:

* Must be clearly labelled or described as "Client Confidential" or "Commercial in Confidence"
* When printed:
  * Stored out of sight
  * Destroyed by cross-cut shredding when no longer required
* When digital:
  * Stored in an encrypted format when on exchangeable media or a mobile device

As a rule of thumb, label a document as Client Confidential if it mostly
contains the client's confidential information, or Commercial in Confidence if
it mostly contains dxw's.

#### Unclassified

Anything not captured by the sections above is unclassified. Examples are
external marketing material, general emails and letters.

Beyond a general duty to treat information carefully, unclassified information
is not subject to any specific restrictions.

### Email Signature

#### dxw digital

Name<br>
Job Title<br>
name@dxw.com<br>
Twitter handle - if you’re comfortable to share<br>
Mobile - if you’re comfortable to share<br>

www.dxw.com :: 0345 2577520 :: @dxw :: creating better digital public services

#### dxw cyber

Name<br>
Job Title<br>
name@dxw.com<br>

www.dxwcyber.com :: 0345 2577520 :: @dxwcyber

### Email Autoresponder

If you require an out of office message on your email account please send
your request to support@dxw.com with the subject title **Email Autoresponder**
which must include start date, the contact details for another member of the
team for any urgent queries, and return date to be added to our mail server.

### Internal Tech Support

If you experience problems with the office printers, wi-fi, video conference
set-up, Macs etc… You may send a message in the **#dxw-techsupport**
Slack channel.

**Note:** please use Helvetica or Arial as the font in your emails.

### Benefits

All perks and benefits are available to the dxw team after the successful passing of their probationary period.

#### Pensions

dxw provides a pension which is operated by Aviva. Once you have passed your 3
month check in, you will be auto enrolled into the scheme, receive details by
post of the necessary employer/employee contributions and have the option to set
your percentage or opt out.

dxw will match any contribution up to 5%.

Your contribution will be relief at source, with 0.8 deducted from your monthly
salary and the additional 0.2 added from tax relief.

For more details on Relief at Source, please visit the [Aviva website](
https://www.aviva.co.uk/retirement/news-views/report/making-sense-of-tax-relief-on-pension-payments/).

#### Childcare Vouchers

The Government closed the Childcare Vouchers scheme to new entrants on 4th October 2018. This means we are no longer able to add new members to the voucher scheme with Busy Bees.

The government has introduced new ways to help parents with childcare costs which you access directly: [www.childcarechoices.gov.uk](www.childcarechoices.gov.uk)

For more information, please speak to Vanessa.

#### Conference Perk

The conference perk is for people to have some time away from the office, come
back refreshed, and improve health and wellbeing. It is open to everyone at dxw
who has successfully passed their probation.

You'll be allocated an annual budget of £600 (and 2 days off work) to use as you
see fit. You can top up your time off with existing annual leave allowance if
necessary. dxw pays for the event ticket, travel, and accommodation, but you
will need to cover your own costs for food, drink and supplementary equipment.

No restrictions regarding the type of event or where, as long as it’s within
budget. If appropriate, it’d be great if you would talk about your experience in
a blog post.

It's ok for members of the team to go together, but Head of Delivery gets final
say if there's an impact on work, as with any other leave.

You can book your perk through BreatheHR as a training request, with weblinks and an estimate of the
ticket, accommodation and travel costs, and Bus Ops will get it sorted for you.

The annual budget is aligned to your start date.

#### Cycle to work scheme

dxw operates a cycle-to-work scheme, which may allow you to purchase a bicycle
at reduced cost. If you would like to take this up, please register
[on the cycle scheme website](https://www.cyclescheme.co.uk/18eb71)

#### Eyecare vouchers

dxw provides eyecare for the team via a voucher system run by ASE Corporate Eyecare Ltd and Boots.

Details of what the wellbeing voucher offers can be found here: [Eyecare for Wellbeing](https://www.eyecareplans.co.uk/corporate-eyecare/eyecare-for-wellbeing/).

[Apply for a wellbeing eyecare voucher](https://gw.eyecareplans.co.uk/dxwe12q2415d3df)

#### Book purchase

If there is a book relevant to your work that you would like to read, make a request through the #dxw-purchasing slack channel and the Bus Ops team will buy it for the library.

#### Equipment

dxw will pay for the equipment needed to enable you to work comfortably and safely. dxw also offers a budget of £25 towards a work backpack. Use the `dxw-purchasing` Slack channel to request any equipment you need, or talk to anyone in business operations if you are unsure if a purchase will be covered.

## Sharing

### Events

We all go to work-related events and conferences, sometimes for work and
sometimes in our personal time. No matter what capacity you're attending an
event in, you are a representative of dxw. What you say and do will influence
the way people think about the company as well as about you. It's important,
both personally and for the business, that you make a positive impression.

This section is here to share what we've learned about how to make the most of
these sorts of events.

* **Be nice**: this should go without saying, but whenever we're at events, we show respect to others, treating them how we would like to be treated. If you meet and talk to others and you’re pleasant, welcoming, and interested in what they have to say you’ll always be remembered in a positive light.
* **Talk to people**: one of the best parts of this community is that we’re all in it to socialise, share ideas, and grow as an industry. Try to talk to at least one new person at every event. Don’t just stick to the same group of friends: be sociable. You never know what might come of it.
* **Talk about work**: but don’t be pushy. People will usually ask “what do you do” or “where do you work” so take that opportunity to talk about dxw positively. Talk about the things you’re doing, what you’re finding interesting, and things relevant to the situation. Just don’t go on about yourself, ask people about their work and be interested in what they have to say.
* **If we’re hiring**: talk to even more people than normal! Especially if you’re at an event where the attendees might be relevant for the job. But again, don’t be pushy. Talk to people, join conversations, and if appropriate, mention that we’re hiring and they might be a good candidate. Just don’t let it be the only thing you talk about.

#### Speaking at events

Speaking at events is a great opportunity to represent dxw. There are a couple
of ways this can be valuable.

If it’s an event around your personal speciality (front-end development, sysops,
UX etc), feel free to stick to any personal “branding”, slides, or talk style
you might have already developed. At the start of your talk however, please
introduce yourself as being from dxw, introduce what the company does, and what
you do at the company. Then continue with your talk.

If it’s an event more around dxw’s focus (public sector events, dxw projects,
public-sector specific topic etc) then err more towards using dxw's branding and
slides. Introduce the company in full and what your role is within the company.
Stick to the dxw style of talk and where appropriate discuss the company’s
principles.

In either situation, if we’re hiring, mention this towards the end of the talk.
Tell people what roles we’re looking for and that they’re welcome to speak to
you after the talk about it in more detail. Also make sure to have a short link
to the job description in your slides too.

The most important thing to remember is that you'll leave the best impression -
personally and for the company - if your talk is interesting, useful and
well-presented. It takes time to make talks that work well. If you need help,
advice or time to prepare, don't be afraid to ask for it. It's also good to blog
after the event, to talk about your experience and what you learned. If you need
time to be set aside, talk to a delivery lead and see what's possible.

### Blog

At dxw, we all write blog posts regularly.

We blog because want to share what we're doing and what we're learning about
tech and government with the digital community. When we're hiring, we also want
potential new staff to be able to to get to know us a bit beforehand. Writing
introductory blog posts and following up with communicating about the work we do
helps people gauge what kind of team we are. We also work in the open and are
keen to share our knowledge, express our values and get people thinking about
how to improve services for the public sector. One of the ways we do this is by
encouraging feedback as much as honing our own views on certain topics.

We collect ideas for blog posts on a Trello board, where they can be discussed
before being written. Often, we'll pick up ideas from this board on Fridays and
spend our dxw time writing.

The process for writing a new post is:

* Write the post and save in Google drive
* Have peers review your post and suggest changes (if required)
* When you're happy with the post, ask Harry to sign it off
* Send the post to CommsCrowd to see if they might want to pitch it to publications
* When ready, add the post to WordPress as a draft and agree a publication time with the team
* Write a tweet to promote your post and add it to Buffer, scheduled to go out when the post is public

### Twitter

### Facebook
