### Redundancy Policy

The coronavirus pandemic has caused us to look at some of our HR policies - or
more pertinently, the lack of them. It comes at a time where we have grown as a
company, but have not yet put in place all the policies and procedures that a
larger organisation might need.

This policy is being put in place now, whilst we’re not facing any imminent need
to make redundancies - in a classic "fix the roof whilst the sun is shining"
way.

In putting it together, we have considered not just our legal obligations, but
how best to go about doing a hard thing, in line with our dxw values.

#### Policy statement

We believe that continuity of employment and job security is important for staff
wellbeing, and for delivering quality work to our clients. We work hard to keep
our sales pipeline healthy. And we plan the future development of dxw carefully
so we can hire the right people at the right time.

However, the future is never certain. Significant changes in our plans or in the
markets we serve, could mean that we need to make a role redundant. If that
happens, we will follow a fair and open process.

This section of the playbook sets out what we’ll do in those circumstances.

#### How roles are selected for redundancy

We will take an open, data-led approach in redundancy situations. We might, for
example, find that we need to reduce our unbillable roles to keep profits at a
sustainable level. Or that we need less people in a particular specialism if we
experience a reduction in demand for that type of work.

If a group of people in very similar roles are involved in the redundancy
situation, everyone in the pool will be treated as being at risk and there will
be a selection process. We will publish the selection criteria at the time,
which may include any or all of the following:

- A performance assessment
- Any disciplinary issues having previously arisen
- Adaptability to a new role or way of working
- Attendance record

#### The process we’ll follow if we need to make redundancies

The Directors group is responsible for determining any proposed course of action
that involves redundancies. This will be documented, setting out the problem
faced, the options considered, proposed solution, and a plan for implementation.
To ensure this is a fair and robust process, it will be reviewed and agreed with
the Advisory Board/Shareholders, before the following actions are taken:

###### 1. Inform affected employees as soon as their jobs are at risk

We will organise a face-to-face meeting to tell you if your job is at risk of
redundancy. As at the moment we all work remotely, we would organise this by
slack/email, with the meeting held over video conference. If in the future we're
back in an office, we'd do this in person. We will follow up that meeting with a
formal ‘at risk’ notification.

###### 2. Consult staff affected about proposals for change

For staff at risk, with more than two years service, there is a formal legal
consultation period, where we ask you to think about our proposals for change,
and to talk to us if you have any thoughts/ideas about doing things differently.

The length of this consultation period will be no less than a week, but may well
be longer, if for example there is a significant change affecting a number of
colleagues.

There will be at least one consultation meeting with a Director, and with each
person ‘at risk’. More meetings can be arranged if necessary. These meetings
will consider any redeployment opportunities, or other possible measures to
avoid redundancy. You would have the right to be accompanied by a work colleague
or a Trade Union representative.

###### 3. Inform & consult with the wider staff body

There is no legal obligation to consult with the wider staff body (unless there
are more than 20 jobs at risk within a 90 day period), or with at-risk staff
with less than two years service.

However, we would want to be more open than this; and in the interests of
finding solutions, we would want to draw ideas from the widest group of people
possible. So, once the people directly affected have been informed, we will
publish a bikeshed, detailing the proposal for change, and asking for feedback.

An exception to this may arise if an individual role is affected, rather than a
group, as it may cause more discomfort and anxiety by publishing a bikeshed.

###### 4. Decision on proposal

Following consultation, final decisions on the proposal will be taken by the
Directors. Full consideration will be given to anything arising through the
consultation period before a final decision is made on the proposed changes, and
the selection criteria to be used if there is a pool of roles affected. Feedback
will be given to the member of staff whose role is at risk.

Where selection for redundancy is confirmed, the affected employee will be given
written notice of termination in accordance with the terms of their contract.
The letter will also confirm the right to appeal the decision.

###### 5. Appeal

The affected staff members have the right to appeal against the decision to
terminate their employment on the grounds of redundancy. The appeal should be
made in writing within five working days of receipt of the decision letter, and
should be addressed to the Managing Director.

#### Time off

Colleagues who have been given notice of redundancy have the right to take
reasonable paid time off to seek other work. This could include registering with
a recruitment agency or attending interviews. Arrangements should be made with
their line manager.

#### Notice period

Your notice period is set out in your employment contract. In all cases the
contractual notice period meets or exceeds the statutory notice period legally
required.

#### Redundancy pay

dxw will pay statutory redundancy pay to any employee who meets the eligibility
criteria. To be eligible, employees must have been continuously employed for two
complete years, this is a legal requirement that we are unable to change. The
amount of statutory redundancy pay is based on your age and length of service.
Statutory redundancy pay is not subject to tax. Further details here on gov.uk .

Your final salary payment will comprise your normal salary during your notice
period, and any unused holiday entitlement accrued up to your leaving date
(these are both subject to tax and national insurance in the usual way),
together with your statutory redundancy pay.
