### Your pay, pension and other benefits

All perks and benefits are available to the dxw team after the successful
passing of their probationary period.

#### Changes to your details

Please tell us promptly if your name, address, telephone number, next of kin
details or banking details change.

#### Cost of living raise

dxw will institute a cost of living raise each year on 1st April. The percentage
will be set by the
[CPI Index](https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/inflationandpriceindices) as of 1st
April each year.

- If you have passed your probation, you will receive your raise in the April
  payroll.
- For those team members who joined prior to 1st April of that year, but haven't
  yet passed probation, you will receive your raise in the month you
  successfully complete it and it will be the same percentage as of 1st April
  CPI that year.
- If you joined on or after 1st April (that year), you will not be eligible for
  a cost of living raise until the following April.
- If you are leaving during April you will not receive the cost of living raise.

#### Pensions

dxw provides a pension which is operated by Aviva. Once you have passed your 3
month check in, you will be auto enrolled into the scheme, receive details by
post of the necessary employer/employee contributions and have the option to set
your percentage or opt out.

dxw will match any contribution up to 5%.

Your contribution will be relief at source, with 0.8 deducted from your monthly
salary and the additional 0.2 added from tax relief.

For more details on Relief at Source, please visit the
[Aviva website](https://www.aviva.co.uk/retirement/news-views/report/making-sense-of-tax-relief-on-pension-payments/).

#### Holiday

If you want to take time off:

1. Discuss the dates with your team and delivery lead

   This gives them a chance to manage any impact it might have on the wider team
   and the project.

1. Request the holiday through BreatheHR

   We use BreatheHR to track who's off and when, so we can plan for it. Your
   line manager can then see and approve your request.

1. Add your holiday to your Google calendar

   If someone is trying to find out where you are, or when you're available, the
   first thing they'll check is your calendar.

   When you are on a client project, you may also need to add your holiday to a
   shared or team calendar. Check with your delivery lead.

Your line manager will normally approve requests that are for 10 days or less
and made at least 4 weeks in advance. Anything longer or requested with less
notice will need to be managed to understand its impact on client, team or
personal work.

When your planned leave has been approved, update the schedule in 10,000ft to
reflect this. This helps us to look ahead and is recorded as “Out of office".
Each member of our delivery team uses the tool to record the days they work on
client projects on a weekly basis.

There is more information about dxw's holiday arrangements in your contract of
employment.

#### TOIL (Time off in lieu)

Where possible we try to keep a sustainable pace of work and avoid working
outside normal hours; occasionally this might not be possible.

##### How is TOIL calculated?

TOIL (time off in lieu) is awarded when you work over and above your contracted
working hours continuously for a period of time or when you attend/travel to an
event outside of your contracted working hours. TOIL should be agreed with your
delivery lead or line manager ahead of doing the extra work.

We encourage you to use your TOIL within the two weeks of extra work or event
attended as it's meant to be for resting and making up for working at a
sustainable pace. We know this may not be feasible in every case so please speak
to your Line Manager or a member of the HR team if you have any questions.

There are two options of how to use your TOIL, you can calculate the amount of
hours you have accrued (ie half a day) and take it off at once or take a couple
of hours a day spread over a period of time. Planning when you’ll take TOIL is
important, particularly if you’re working on a billable project so please speak
to your Delivery Lead before doing any overtime and arrange when you’ll be able
to take the time back.

##### How to request TOIL?

Using BreatheHR similar to the way that you request holiday there is a TOIL drop
down, please write a note as to why you are requesting the leave and this will
be approved by a member of the HR team. Please note this will not deduct from
your holiday allowance shown on your BreatheHR dashboard.

#### Sickness

If you are sick, you must let us know by 10:00, or as soon as is reasonably
practical. Do not come to the office. If you come to the office when sick, you
may be sent home again.

If you're sick but able to work, you can work from home. Everyone at dxw should
have a laptop, and should generally take it home with them in case it's needed.
If you're sick and at home but don't have your laptop, it can be couriered to
you.

When you return to work, you must check that your sickness has been correctly
recorded in BreatheHR, and update it if necessary. If you're sick for more than
a week, you'll also need to provide a
[fit note](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-fit-note-a-guide-for-patients-and-employees).

If you're sick on more than 10 occasions or for more than 10 days over a
12-month period, we'll invite you to an absence meeting to discuss your
situation. We may agree with you an action plan and/or a review period. We may
seek medical advice. Should your attendance fail to improve after a three-month
period, we will invite you to a further absence meeting to discuss your
situation. In this meeting we will also give consideration to your possible
dismissal.

We'll also invite you to an absence meeting if you're off sick for more than
three weeks on a single occasion. In addition to the above, we will seek to
support your return to work and discuss with you any temporary or permanent
adjustments which may assist you. If you are unable to return to work in your
current role we will consider if there is a suitable alternative role. If we are
unable to reach an agreement that will permit you to return to work, we will
give consideration to your possible dismissal.

We will always only consider dismissal after we have exhausted all other
reasonable options.

#### Compassionate leave

If you need to take compassionate leave, let your line manager and a member of
the HR team know, so we can support you in the right way. If you are on a
project, we can then work with your delivery lead to manage the impact on the
team.

To record the compassionate leave in BreatheHR, choose Other as the Type of
Leave, and choose Compassionate as the Reason.

#### Parental leave

While many terms around parental leave are gendered, gender is not a factor in
what leave you are entitled to. What matters is whether or not you are pregnant.

##### If you're pregnant

If you're pregnant, you’ll probably be entitled to
[Statutory Maternity Leave (SML) and Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP)](https://www.gov.uk/maternity-pay-leave/leave),
which is funded by the government. They will pay you 90% of your normal salary
for the first six weeks of your leave.

Assuming you are entitled to SMP (almost everyone is), dxw will also pay you 90%
of your salary for the second six weeks of your leave. This contribution is
called Occupational Maternity Pay (OMP). Taken together, this means that you’ll
have twelve weeks of leave on 90% of your normal salary.

To be eligible for OMP, on returning to work you will need to stay at dxw for at
least three months full time (or proportionately longer if working part-time).
If you decide not to, you will have to repay any OMP you received.

When you know you are pregnant please do tell us as soon as possible, so we can
check that your working arrangements are safe for you and also ensure you are
paid for time off for antenatal appointments.

##### If you're not pregnant

If your partner is pregnant, you are adopting, or you are having a baby through
surrogacy, you’ll probably be eligible for
[Statutory Paternity Leave (SPL) and Statutory Paternity Pay (SPP)](https://www.gov.uk/paternity-pay-leave).
SPL may be taken for one or two consecutive weeks, between the date of birth and
56 days afterwards. SPP is £145.18 per week.

If you qualify for SPL and SPP, dxw will instead pay you your normal salary for
three weeks of paternity leave. If you want to take more than three weeks of
leave you can use [shared parental leave](#shared-parental-leave).

##### Shared parental leave

If you're having a baby, adopting a child, or having a baby through surrogacy,
you may be eligible for
[Shared Parental Leave and Pay](https://www.gov.uk/shared-parental-leave-and-pay).
If you're interested in taking this up, please talk to the People Manager.

##### Keep in touch (KIT) days

You have 10 paid KIT days to take during your parental leave if you wish to come
in for departmental meetings, events or just to spend some time in the office.

Any bank holidays that you miss while on parental leave will be added to your
holiday entitlement when you return to work.

#### Childcare Vouchers

The Government closed the Childcare Vouchers scheme to new entrants on 4th
October 2018. This means we are no longer able to add new members to the voucher
scheme with Busy Bees.

The government has introduced new ways to help parents with childcare costs
which you access directly:
[https://www.gov.uk/get-tax-free-childcare](https://www.gov.uk/get-tax-free-childcare)

For more information, please speak to the People Manager.

#### Flexible working

Our policy is informed by the way we work and the way we charge clients for our
time.

##### Overall requirements

**Client facing**: Any working arrangement needs to allow you to participate in
most Fridays and be around for the important start-of- and end-of-sprint
ceremonies.

**Internal facing**: Working arrangements for these roles are slightly more
flexible as the delivery needs listed above are not relevant.

##### Part time working

The normal working pattern is 5 days per week, Monday–Friday.

**Client facing**: We’re happy to talk about a 4-day week, on the basis of a
fortnightly pattern to accommodate our Monday–Thursday billing week and
attending some Fridays. It may be possible for some roles to work a 3 day week
due to the nature of the role potentially not being full-time on a single
project, this would be dependent on a number of contextual factors and
discussion with the team. We’re unable to support a 3-day (or fewer) week for
all other roles due to the overheads for scheduling.

**Internal facing**: We’re happy to talk about part time working for any number
of days, dependent on the role.

Part time hours spread over 5 days, e.g. working 21 hours across a full week, or
roughly 4 hours a day, may be possible for internal facing roles after
discussion, but is likely a no for client facing roles.

Salary and holiday allowances (including bank holidays) will be prorated for
part time roles.

For example, when working a 4 day week, the pro rata leave allowance will be 20
days per year of annual leave and 6.5 bank holiday days, giving a total leave
allowance of 26.5 days. Bank holidays that don’t fall on a non-working day must
be booked as annual leave.

##### Core and non-core hours

Everybody is expected to work seven hours a day. Normal office hours are
10am–6pm.

If you’d prefer to start a little earlier and finish a little earlier (say
9am–5pm), this is definitely OK and can happen without any formal discussion for
all roles.

If you’d prefer your working hours to start after 10am or finish before 5pm
(still keeping to seven hours), we’re happy to discuss this and either **might**
be possible. The impact of this would be less for internal facing roles than for
client facing roles, but both would require a discussion.

Salary and holiday allowances would remain the same.

##### Compressed hours

Compressed hours involves working your full hours in fewer days. For example: 35
hours in 4 days, 9.30am–6.45pm.

We don't offer compressed hours for client-facing roles due to the complications
for the way we bill our time and present our services to clients.

We are happy to have a discussion about compressed hours for internal-facing
roles but cannot guarantee this would be an option.

35 hours in 3 days, for example, is a no across all roles. It goes against our
encouragement of [sustainable pace](#work-at-a-sustainable-pace).

For working patterns with the same number of hours each day, holiday allowance
can be treated the same as for [part-time roles](#part-time-working). For
working patterns with varied hours, the annual allowance for both holiday and
bank holidays should be counted in hours (231 hours per year) and bank holidays
that fall on working days must be booked as leave.

##### Remote working/location

Generally, we work either at our office or at client sites.

We’re happy to support working from home from a logistical or well-being related
perspective. While we don’t support fully-remote roles (legacy arrangements
being the exception), we can look at anything from 1–3 days per week following a
discussion.

If you need to work from home for a one-off thing then that doesn’t require
contractual arrangement – just talk about it with your team before the day, make
sure you note it in your calendar and include it in your standup note that day.

##### Requesting a change of working arrangement

If you would like to discuss a change to the standard working pattern, you can
either speak to your Head-of directly, or, contact the People Team to facilitate
and support this conversation by phone, email, slack or in one of our bi-weekly
HR surgeries. In this initial conversation, we will discuss your request, look
at the impact on the team and your work, agree the best time for this
arrangement to begin and how it will be communicated to those necessary.

If you have an alternative working arrangement, you should make sure it’s
reflected in your calendar so the rest of the team can be confident in knowing
when you are and aren’t around.

#### Grievances

If you have a grievance about your employment or a complaint about another
member of staff, talk to the Managing Director as soon as possible.

The first step is to discuss the problem to see if it can be quickly resolved.

If this discussion does not satisfactorily resolve the problem, you should put
details of your grievance in writing and send it to the Managing Director. They
will arrange a meeting to discuss the matter, at which you may be accompanied by
a colleague or trade union official. Following this discussion the Managing
Director will provide a written response.

If you disagree with this response or the matter remains unresolved, you may
appeal by respond in writing. A further meeting will be arranged and the
Managing Director will again respond in writing. This decision will be final.

#### Disciplinary procedure

If you do something that we feel constitutes misconduct, or your performance in
your job has been poor, we'll talk to you about it. Hopefully, there's just been
some misunderstanding, or some problem that's easy to solve and won't recur.
Formal action will not be taken without careful investigation of the facts.

If we feel it's appropriate, we may verbally warn you, explaining what has been
unacceptable and what you need to do to improve your conduct or performance.

If your conduct or performance fails to improve following a verbal warning, or
if the matter is serious enough that a verbal warning is not appropriate, we may
hold a disciplinary meeting at which you may be accompanied or represented by a
colleague or trade union official. Following this meeting, we may:

- Conclude that no misconduct has taken place, or that there is no poor
  performance
- Issue you with a written warning, which will explain:
  - The nature of the misconduct or poor performance
  - The change to your behaviour or performance that you need to make
  - The time within which the change needs to be made
  - The consequences of not making the change (for example, dismissal)
- In cases of gross misconduct, dismiss you without notice

If you disagree with the outcome of this hearing, you may appeal against the
decision. You must do this in writing. If you do so, your appeal and the
circumstances of your case will be reviewed by a member of staff who has not
been involved in your case before. That member of staff and the Managing
Director will then meet to discuss your case, and will either uphold the outcome
or schedule another disciplinary meeting. dxw's decision following that meeting
will be final.
