---
title: Client experience
related_order: 1
last_reviewed_at: ""
---

## Responsiveness

One of the things our clients value most is responsiveness. Many will be under
pressure to get things done quickly, and will be expected by their colleagues
and managers to know what is going on at any given time, and to manage us
effectively. If we're not quick to respond to their queries, questions and
concerns, we reduce their ability to maintain the confidence of their
colleagues.

So, when we are on sprints, we endeavour to respond to our client quickly. It's
not always possible to resolve a problem or get an answer quickly, but that
shouldn't stop us from acknowledging a message or giving regular updates. As
with [tickets](/work-we-do/providing-techical-support/#be-responsive), being responsive to a
query is just as important as giving a definitive answer.

When we get enquiries for clients who are not currently sprinting, we still
answer as quickly as we can - but clients who are sprinting come first.

We also expect most communication with clients to happen with the project's
delivery lead. We don't hide anyone on the team from the client, and they are
free to ask questions of whomever they wish. But if you're a developer and you
get a question that's really for a delivery lead to answer, refer the client on.
This will help to keep you productive, and will help the client understand who
on the dxw team does what.

## Progress in every sprint

Delivering projects in an agile way requires trust between everyone involved in
delivery. Clients must have confidence in us for the process to work. One of the
quickest ways to lose confidence is to finish sprints with little to show for
the effort we've made. In all of our work, we maintain a clear relationship
between sprints and their associated costs, and visible, tangible changes to the
service we're working on.

This means that we structure work so that visible progress and supporting
back-end work happens side-by-side. We don't work on back-end or supporting code
first, and then bolt front-ends on later. We make sure that what we're doing is
visible to our clients as early as possible. This helps us to maintain trust,
and gives us more opportunities to learn what works and what doesn't by
involving users of the service in testing.

## Involvement

We involve clients in every aspect of our work. Projects work best when everyone
involved feels part of the same team. So, other than the internal retro, there's
no aspect of our process that we do without client involvement.

In particular, we should go out of our way to involve clients when decisions are
being made about design, user needs, or strategy (among other things). We're not
here to make decisions for our clients: we're here to help them to make good
decisions themselves. So we shouldn't make decisions about important things
without them.

This isn't to say that we require clients to participate in everything. Clients
and projects have varying needs, so this aspect of the process is flexible. But
we always make the option of involvement available. If they want to join daily
standups as well as participate in sprint planning, they can.
